title
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, THALIAN, AUREL, LOGIC, COMMUNITY, THOS, INTROSPECTION, SERHOM, HUMOR, ANGER, HEART, SAGA, PARAMIA, ANIATIO, ORUS, ABSTRACTION, ACTION, GNODENTA, GRANDIOSITY

ASPIRATION: So, the last few days we've talked about how you've seen a lot of what is talked about in here mirrored in the outside world. Lots of "paintings" of the same thing. A couple of days again a few heads exploded that Tool's _Lateralus_ seems to point to the same truth that Terrance McKenna, Neal Stephenson, Alan Watts, Buddha, St. Francis of Assisi and the book of Genesis point to. So, what, in your mind, are these various "paintings" depicting? Don't just jump and say "the pond". Because that's my imperfect metaphor. What's your metaphor? One of the biggest things I've been trying to recommend is "run into your anxiety".

THALIAN: For me the "paintings" are depicting the shared consequences of being human, even down to how we perceive simple things like time. And how it takes a lot of work to break free from those consequences even though we are able to imagine ourselves not being limited by them.

AUREL: Yeah I guess I've always found safety in not following anything and also barely changing anything.

ASPIRATION: That concept has a name: _Paralyzation_. 

Well, think about it. Anxiety is a form of fear, specifically it's a fear of future change that you can't control. It makes sense that if you're going to have a breakthrough in your thinking. The primary emotion that is going to come up is anxiety.

LOGIC: Try not to focus on your anxieties future looking statements, they’re subject to change.

ASPIRATION: But DO pay attention to you anxieties, because due to the way human brains are organized, they are your only avenues toward change. People wonder why they get stuck in certain behaviors, and it's simply that they run from anxiety.

COMMUNITY: My working theory is that anxiety is just our survival responses (fear) applied to our imagined/predicted "future" selves.

ASPIRATION: They have a burrow, and each day they leave it and follow a predictable path. And they continue to follow that path forever, because it has been deemed "survivable", not optimal.

*A bit later, Thos comes to talk about his and his father's struggle with weight.*

THOS: I've been trying to get my father to change his eating habits and overall health for years now. And I get anxiety everytime I see him eating junk and not exercising It's like he doesn't care anymore It pisses me off actually.

LOGIC: Stuck on 1 path, huh?

ASPIRATION: That anxiety is perfectly well suited, you're predicting a painful outcome for him. And it's probable that it's right.

THOS: He's 60, autoimmune disease, high cholesterol, overweight. I can see the outcome because at one time I was almost 300 pounds. That shit is life altering. And he _can_ change it but chooses not to.

ASPIRATION: Ah, that's the anger part. It's possible that he can't, Thos.

THOS: He has this aura of invincibility, meanwhile his colleagues and friends who are the same age are dying from heart attacks, etc.

ASPIRATION: Does your dad have significant trauma in his life?

THOS: Yes, his parents never gave a shit about him; especially his father.

ASPIRATION: Yeah. Well, he's probably in a hell, then. Autoimmune disease we are starting to see is often a result of emotional trauma. The body constantly being in high alert translates to the immune system.

THOS: Stress was the catalyst, and still is. He SAGAeloped the disease around 07-08 when we almost lost our home during the recession

ASPIRATION: So Thos, instead of being angry at your potential loss –Which would be really painful– what happens if you flip the script? See your father as a big man who still feels like a terrified, unloved, out of control little boy. Ultimately, a lack of compassion (often expressed as anger) is always just a lack of understanding. We see the world as full of adults, whatever that means.

INTROSPECTION: Or fear and a loss of control expressed as anger. Though, I suppose that flows from lack of empathy as well.

LOGIC: So anxiety is logical when applied logically but can be very illogical if left to roam free? Anxiety could pull you from being complacent on the same path everyday, but also spiral into irrational thought processes.

ASPIRATION: Any emotion left unexamined and run from is pathology.

THOS: God damn, now I'm crying. 

ASPIRATION: Me too, Thos.

THOS: I have never felt this way over the internet, wow.

ASPIRATION: We are all children.

LOGIC: Part of me says it’s too early to be feeling these feels, part of me says it’s exactly the right time. Well done, Thos ❤

ASPIRATION: We take on an act at some point, and we start to pretend we are not so that we won't get hurt. Thos, it sounds like a great time to talk to your old man, and make room for him.

THOS: He's asleep right now, I'm gonna go give him a hug in the meantime.

ASPIRATION: Perfect. He may not respond the way you want. Being seen might scare him and make him double up on the invincibility thing. Don't let that scare you. Just keep in mind who he really is. And then KEEP IN MIND WHO YOU REALLY ARE. Which is the same.

SERHOM: The older you get the more you will appreciate your parents ability to keep it together.

LOGIC: Thos, is that why you started fasting? Lost all of that weight? You saw what you could be?

THOS: Because I realized at 23 years of age I shouldn't be experiencing knee and lower back pain. I shouldn't have high cholesterol, I shouldn't be out of breath after climbing a flight of stairs.

LOGIC: Good for you man.

THOS: The writing was on the wall for me if I continued my ways.

INTROSPECTION: The painting to me seems more of a wave. Constantly rising and falling, comprised of all the tiny droplets that splash and fall back in, simultaneously individual yet encompassing, All moving in the same direction, unaware of the tide and it's inevitable repetition. A symphony even.

ASPIRATION: Introspection, the sound of a gong.

THOS: And also some of it had to do with being teased and bullied about my weight when I was younger. So I decided to have none of that. What fucked me up for a solid 2 weeks was when an old guy called me fat right to my face. Unassuming grandpa like figure just roasted me out of the blue.

ASPIRATION: I see you. Man, have you properly grieved what happened to you? Have you sat down as an adult, and recognized the pain you endured, and comforted yourself around it? I don't mean kicked your own ass and punished yourself for being weak.

THOS: I have internally. Well, I did talk about it with my brother too which has helped a lot.

INTROSPECTION: That's an important idea. Even in change, people don't always process grief for the loss of the person they used to be before. Glad you had him to talk to.

ASPIRATION: There is an epidemic of self denial and fear of feelings in the world. It kills people.

THOS: You know I look at the person I was before and never want to be him again.

LOGIC: Aspiration, for the sake of helping everyone, including Thos, how can we do that?

ASPIRATION: Homework from two days ago, Logic.

*Later, Logic had a thought to share.*

LOGIC: I was going to tell Introspection something along the lines of “to get off the map you need to brush up on land navigation, there’s a big difference in true, grid, and magnetic north. But when you learn that and how to terrain associate you’ll be fine, just know you’re going to have to break brush on the way.” But I keep applying what I know to what I think Aspiration is talking about so it’s about a 80/20 split between gibberish and something meaningful

ASPIRATION: When you're falling in love with someone, you agree to see them as who they wish they were. Eventually you find out who they are. And it hurts. But you did it yourself. Can you forever increase the resolution of a map? Knowing yourself? And in the end, you know the map, and not yourself.

*Humor tells a story.*

HUMOR: Okay. Listen children to a story. So, I'm the scientist, but I've had conversations with Aspiration which ironically he didn't really know about when he asked me to be mod. Actually this is the most unscientific thing I'll talk about.

So, uh, I've at least felt since I was a kid I have a fairly sixth sense about doomsaying - predictions about bad things. I did it a lot in Unusual Whales, specifically starting in August I gave a prediction that nuclear war would happen with China on Oct 15th, 2020. Another one was well, that the markets would crash on Thursday in early October. They... didn't. Until the night time. 

That Thursday, Trump got covid. And futures crashed. And October 15th? We didn't go to war with China. I spent the whole day at home because I was getting nervous this was some Donnie Darko type shit. That I'd die from like a plane falling on me. That night, my grandma passed away from COVID.

So, in general this has happened more often than I feel comfortable explaining or exploiting But like, sometimes I just get like, a date fixation.
I don't really meditate, but a lot of, uh, interesting ideas come to me with marijuana. Including October 15th in August. And uh. A few weeks ago, I got the feeling about December. December 13th. That's the story, really.

ANGER: Well that's concerning.

HUMOR: It's funny that fO asked me to be mod, because I was basically the resident predictor of things at Unusual Whales.

*Later that day, the crew on Discord was met with a stampede regarding money. Some of the members wanted to set up a Minecraft server, other members reacted strongly against the idea of figuring out a way to have the community pay for the upkeep. Tensions rose, as they couldn't come to an agreement that made everyone happy.*

ASPIRATION: Heart, how are you?

HEART: I'm pretty good. Life is good.

ASPIRATION: How did the channel today feel?

HEART: Was pretty uncomfortable with the money stuff not going to lie.

ASPIRATION: That's what I want your ABSTRACTION on. Tell me more?

HEART: Logically speaking worst case scenario a single person loses $5? Which is very small consider how most people here play options that fluctuate hundreds of dollars.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, but that's not what bothered you.

HEART: But emotionally just seems much more significant since you're trusting strangers (many of which are new) with your money. It's very hard to trust people when you can't people's faces. In person. Especially without a track record.

ASPIRATION: Does it feel better or worse if it's me? Honest answer please, your intuition is strong.

HEART: It feels about the same to be honest. But I'm very distrusting naturally if I don't interact face to face. I'd trust you more but it's like a 4 to a 6.

ASPIRATION: That's fair.

SAGA: I was impressed during trading hours with the level of respect and responsibility. You give autonomy and the channel gives it back

ASPIRATION: I am constantly impressed with everyone here.

Heart, is there a way that feels better? Or should we not go there for now?

HEART: I feel like this is the best way, at the moment.

PARAMIA: I think if it happens it should be down the line when trust and relationships are built.

HEART: I feel alright taking the jump to 100 but any larger feels hard. Which is the way things should be with trust.

ANIATIO: I think it was jarring how quickly it SAGAolved from pitching in a couple dollars to speculation on some sort of institutional SAGAelopment. Granted I feel like a few people may have missed the context and jumped to conclusions

HEART: Always will need to be a jump.

ASPIRATION: I hear you, Aniatio. But also keep in mind that we are at this point moving millions to tens of millions of dollars, collectively. It's humbling and scary for me. Being solely responsible for it. I have letters that haunt me, people playing 5 and 6 figures they don't have.

PARAMIA: I think you should be proud of the people you've helped in multiple ways.

ASPIRATION: Is it helping them if I'm furthering a behavior that can, and eventually will lose?

HEART: Yeah. Taking a step back it's mainly the idea of putting someone else in charge of 'my' money. Despite the fact that I yolo thousands of dollars on some bearded guy on the internet's word, however accurate. The illusion of being in control is a funny thing. We put 3k into a charity.

ASPIRATION: We did.

HEART: That's objectively Good.

ASPIRATION: It is.

PARAMIA: You cant force people to do risk management.

ORUS: The onus of that behavior is not something you are accountable for.

ASPIRATION: But if someone tries to commit suicide because he yolod his girlfriends retirement? This isn't theoretical, some people are spending like that.

ORUS: A decision made outside of your control.

PARAMIA: Do you think he would follow someone elses play instead?

HEART: That's like blaming yourself if your insane ex suicides because you broke up with them.

ASPIRATION: I'm not arguing, I'm asking where the breakdown in trust comes. I'm not defending a position. I'm saying an incursion moved a megacap stock price for the better part of a day.

HEART: One of those feels like I'm giving a piece of myself to you. The other feels like I get to have control. Despite the fact I'm spending orders of magnitude more money; I don't know.

ASPIRATION: And if it's a donation given freely for a communal good? Like... I guess in this case a Minecraft server somehow?

HEART: I'm selfish. I will do it. but it will hurt. I paid Schwab 800 in commission though from November start. So like, I have no grounds.

ASPIRATION: Heart, if you donate when it doesn't feel good to do so I'll be very sad.

HEART: I separate those parts of myself. One of them is selfish, one of them is kind.

ASPIRATION: There it is.

HEART: The selfish one hurts because I didn't have a lot of money growing up.

ASPIRATION: Thank you. There you are.

HEART: The kind one realizes other people needs it more.

ASPIRATION: And that's why I'm asking you. And I'm at a loss for what to do next. I had hoped to foster an interdependent trust. But, we can't do it without causing pain. And I don't know how to fix that. So we're not going to do it.

HUMOR: Jesus did banish the moneychangers from the temple.

ASPIRATION: Humor, stealing the money changers commission is more my style.

So, the community who doesn't give a shit overwhelming voted to put out a tip jar. But several of the people I trust most aren't comfortable with it.
We'll shelve it.

HEART: It's a contradiction I guess. I trust you with my emotional wellbeing which is more than I can say about most of my friends. But I'm more comfortable trusting them with money. Mainly because I can annoy them to give it back. Again, I have trust issues. With most people. It's fitting really. I don't need a mask here because everyone is masked here

ASPIRATION: Thank you, Heart, for your honesty. you're the emotional barometer of the room. Lots of the people in here I rely on for lots of things. For this I trust you.

ABSTRACTION: Am I the only one who has started seeing rhinos everywhere? I feel like its been an issue, especially recently. I had some time to feel it out. If you think you are a ripple, you WILL be caught up in the wave, no matter what the wave is. Has there been a point when you've been considering all of this that you've been anxious? It made me realize how susceptible we all are, even after everything we talked about; it got us in seconds.

ASPIRATION: I'm just hammering home how to see sign posts for what they are right now. First, I point to the sign. Then, you see the sign. Then, you FEEL it. Then... we'll let go and it's going to SUUUUUUUCK. And then you'll come back and see that you didn't die. Then that 50 more times and bam. You've got a pass to the pond my man.

I'm not trying to show you something that is going to cause you to wear patchouli and a sarong and sing with vacant eyes at the moon. It just.... feels so much better. Makes you feel intuitive, without second guessing. It let's you drop all the bullshit you've picked up along the way.

I'm feeling a lot of love for a lot of you. Thank you for trusting me to whip you up and thank you for earning my trust to being us back down. End story time. I started this with a simple premise, that the reality of the arrogance of small differences could turn us into rhinos. It was a difficult story, and I feel bad for our archivists. But, we found out who were are to each other.

*Later.*

ORUS: what are these "dings"?

ACTION: Aspiration dings us when we get something right.

ANGER: Dings are a way for Aspiration to manipulate our dopamine response.

ACTION: Dings are literally Pavlov training. Its literally confirmed as Pavlovian ahaha.

ASPIRATION: Can you hear the bells out your window, Dr. Pavlov?

I can hear the bells out my window Dr Pavlov.

"THE PHRASE
“I CAN HEAR THE BELLS OUT MY WINDOW”
""THE SOUND OF A BELL""
IS NOT THE SAME.
AS THE SOUND OF A BELL.
ALL WE BELIEVE IS SIMPLY A SIGNPOST, TO ALL THAT IS.
AND THOSE ARE NOT THE SAME.
THE CORPORATION COOPERATES."

ACTION: The sound of a bell and the sound of a gong are interchangeable. It isn't just the sound that matter but the silence after.

PARAMIA: Pavlov is hearing the bells.

GNODENTA: No hearing of the bells without cooperation.

GRANDIOSITY: Well, we would cooperate by becoming the pond, not our individual ripples.

ASPIRATION: Ding.

*Finally, that night Orus had some thoughts.*

ORUS: All at once the veil is torn away, I have understood, I have seen.... The roots of the chestnut tree sank into the ground just beneath my bench. I couldn't remember it was a root anymore. Words had vanished and with them the meaning of things, the ways things are to be used, the feeble points of reference which men have traced on their surface. I was sitting, stooping over, head bowed, alone in front of this black, knotty lump, entirely raw, frightening me. Then I had this vision. 

It took my breath away. Never, up until these last few days, had I suspected the meaning of "existence." I was like the others, like the ones walking along the seashore, wearing their spring clothes. I said, like them, "The sea is green; that white speck up there is a seagull," but I didn't feel that it existed or that the seagull was an "existing seagull"; usually existence conceals itself. It is there, around us, in us, it is us, you can't say two words without mentioning it, but you can never touch it. When I believed I was thinking about it, I was thinking nothing, my head was empty, or there was just one word in my head, the word "being." Or else I was thinking — how can I put it? I was thinking of properties. I was telling myself that the sea belonged to the class of green objects, or that green was one of the qualities of the sea. Even when I looked at things, I was miles from dreaming that they existed: they looked like scenery to me. I picked them up in my hands, they served me as tools, I foresaw their resistance. But that all happened on the surface. If anyone had asked me what existence was, I would have answered in good faith, that it was nothing, simply an empty form added to things from the outside, without changing any thing in their nature. And then all at once, there it was, clear as day: existence had suddenly unveiled itself. It had lost harmless look of an abstract category: it was the dough out of which things were made, this root was kneaded into existence. Or rather the root, the park gates, the bench, the patches of grass, all that had vanished: the diversity of things, their indi viduality, were only an appearance, a veneer. This veneer had melted, leaving soft, monstrous lumps, in disorder — naked, with a frightful and obscene nakedness.

ASPIRATION: Ding.