# Signpost to Seattle

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, COMMUNITY, ABSTRACTION, PRYLIS, PARAMIA, AUREL, FAHIN, ESCO, XOLL, LUCIRE

**ASPIRATION**: Well, first, how did homework go? If you managed to stay in the space for more than 10 minutes, you did really well. 

**COMMUNITY**: It went well as far as I can tell.

**ABSTRACTION**: I didn't feel very much but I also didn't think very much, not sure if that was the goal.

**PRYLIS**: I'm not able to stay in that calm space for long because my mind is constantly racing and I have trouble concentrating.

**ASPIRATION**: Like I said last night, you can't solve the story with intellectual force, there are too many disparate parts and I've worked hard to make it that way. It's designed to be assembled via an intuitive leap. Once you see the story, you will have had your first incursion. Not that there is anything wrong with using your mind to assemble pieces of it and put them somewhere.

**AUREL**: Is everyone capable of said "intuitive leap"?

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. If you're feeling like something is straining to be understood, like you've got something somehow but you can't quite... bring it forward, then you and I both are doing a good job.

**COMMUNITY**: I've been feeling that way for about 15 hours now, haha.

**PRYLIS**: Same, Community, yesterday I felt so close but couldn't put it together.

**ASPIRATION**: This is like seeing a weight in the gym, but not being able to pick it up. That's fine, we're working on strength training.

**PRYLIS**: I was really IN the conversation, like not just participating but IN; I wasn't able to map it, though.

**ASPIRATION**: Exactly. Intuition feels a little bit like being pushed around in a warm current of water. Especially if you are a man, you've been actively trained, and maybe even emotionally punished, for having an intuitive side. It's going to take time. Women in the chat will probably have a head start on getting their first incursion. 

**PRYLIS**: You're training us to have incursions?

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. Of course. Look around, look how I set it up.

**AUREL**: Don't we have to have some idea of what we'd want the incursion to be about? E.G. like the stock market calls.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. Your first intuitive leap will be a powerful experience. But you have to learn to listen, first. And then, once you can hear it, the next part will be not shoving it right back down. Then, once you're conscious of it, the next step will be trusting it. Then! I'll go away. Because otherwise this would be a cult. Everyone can do it, it is a basic facet of our being. The biggest lesson you will ever learn here is that I'm not special.

**FAHIN**: All theatrics aside, is your intent to keep the sub live, or will it end with the conclusion of the story?

**ASPIRATION**: It will be archived. And I'll tell another story.

**PRYLIS**: Sorry, forgot.. not a cult

**ASPIRATION**: Not a cult, cult adjacent. The purpose of a cult is to accumulate power and adoration for a central figure using various methods. The purpose of this is exactly the reverse. But I had to get your attention to tell the story. When I'm done you'll see that I'm not unique. But that you're pretty cool. 

**PARAMIA**: So is the "gong state" when you make the leap?

**ASPIRATION**: The gong state is the place that's quiet enough for you to listen. 

**PRYLIS**: We're in a maze with signposts. They're there, but he's asking us to intuitively go through the maze.

**ASPIRATION**: The point is that the signposts have been confused with the destination your whole life. Signposts are an abstraction. A sign that says "Seattle" is not Seattle. The phrase "The sound of a gong" is not.... the sound of a gong.

**PARAMIA**: What are we listening for precisely.

**ASPIRATION**: We'll get there. For now, I'm tasking your brain with a mystery. Imagine a cat in your head. And then, realize that the cat in your head is an amalgamation of memories, emotions, visuals, imagination. But it certainly is not a cat. So when you say cat, you bring about all these prejudices and suppositions. But an actual CAT? That is a marvelously complex thing. You cannot, and nobody every could, actually consider the entirety of the cat; it is way too much. 

**ESCO**: Do you include the self that exists within another's mind to be part of the real self?

**ASPIRATION**: The concept of a self is almost entirely the constructs of other minds reflected back at us. Who we think we are is a collection of the reflections of us in the people close to us. Just as a sign saying "Seattle" is just a sign, not Seattle.

**ABSTRACTION**: You are the 5 people you spend the most time with.

**ASPIRATION**: Not only that, but without other people, a self wouldn't exist.

**PRYLIS**: Wait! You're telling this story backwards, you started with the end result.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, I started with an incursion.

**PRYLIS**: Got us hooked and are now reverse-engineering it.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes!

**ESCO**: Because without showing the incursion not many would be interested in the process?

**ASPIRATION**: Exactly, You are results oriented, I had to show the end first. Make the rabbit disappear. 

**COMMUNITY**: So the "self" is just an extension of the idea how we were, while listening to the gong, an effect of its cause but applied to other people's mental representations of us?

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. We believe we own ourselves. But our selves are just a reflection of who everyone in our life has ever shown us who we are. 

**XOLL**: So could the saying that, "we will never see ourselves other than mirrors and pictures" be applied here?

**ASPIRATION**: Yes! What I'm saying is that the person you think you are is simply who you've always been reflected to be. But what you actually are appears spontaneously, when you listen to the sound of the gong.

**JANUS**: Being brilliant is a curse because no one can be your guru. You must always be the guru, no one to hold you and be bigger than you. Everyone wants to be held sometimes, especially those of us who didn’t have good parents.

**ABSTRACTION**: As the mirror fades away like the gong, we are left in silence, and that is when we can appear.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. Incursions can only only happen when we stop constantly reinforcing the story of who we are. Because who we are, is just a phenomenon of nexus; the intersection of all the reflections of other peoples opinions about who we are. The story of who I am is a rouge ladies man, a charming dominant man with a troubled past. The story of who I am is that I'm larger than life, and a little suspect. Who I actually am is the sound of a gong.

**LUCIRE**: I'm assuming this is because our reflections are noisy, full of self-doubt, ego and everything else?

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, Lucire, you can't see a true thing while your head is full of constructs. You cannot think about the sound of a gong and really hear it at the same time. Not that there is anything wrong with your concept of self, per se, as long as it works for you. It's a useful shorthand.

**PARAMIA**: Are we a part of this story that you're telling?

**ASPIRATION**: There could hardly be a cause without an effect.

**LUCIRE**: I mean, it was nice being shown that, because it quieted the depression for a bit. There wasn't any self-criticism or pessimism. I was just existing, and it allowed me to do something positive like take a walk without being weighed down.

**ASPIRATION**: It sounds like the story you've been told about yourself isn't working for you.

**LUCIRE**: No, it hasn't for awhile.

**ASPIRATION**: Let's make space to tell a new one then.

**ASPIRATION**: Alright guys, I've got to go. Real world me has some things to get done.

# A discussion, and a lesson.

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, PARAMIA, PRYLIS, ANGER, LOGIC, SAGA, COMMUNITY, LUCIRE, ABSTRACTION, OARC, DENIRA

**PARAMIA**: Nam silat is the id.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. While you've brought it up. What is November_dawn? If Namsilat is one, and final is another, what is November?

**PRYLIS**: Nam is who we were, Aspiration is who we are, November is who we will become. Wait, what was the other thing about Nam and the band talisman? Also what I don't understand is that he's set out to teach us incursions but told us incursions are from his accident.

**ANGER**: The thing I assume is it (the accident) lead to an accidental intuitive leap. Wasn’t there the guy who got assaulted and then found himself able to see math everywhere?

**PRYLIS**: There was a woman who went blind from the sand in her eyes from a tornado when she was young. Ever since she was able to predict future events because she started using other senses outside of the 5 we know.

**ANGER**: Well to be pedantic we have far more than five senses. Would intuition count as a sense, actually?

**PRYLIS**: Intuition might be the result of a developed 6th sense, like a skill that can be trained but only once you've developed it?

**ANGER**: “Different fields use the word "intuition" in very different ways, including but not limited to: direct access to unconscious knowledge; unconscious cognition; inner sensing; inner insight to unconscious pattern-recognition; and the ability to understand something instinctively, without any need for conscious reasoning.”

**PRYLIS**: And the ability to understand something instinctively, without any need for conscious reasoning.

**ANGER**: The bicameral mind, the death of the expert, and ego death.

**PRYLIS**: Sounds like it. Suffering = pains x resistance, you're only suffering the more you resist it.

**ANGER**: It sounds like Aspiration dislikes the Utilitarian Man: The man who never ending seeks to lower pain and raise pleasure. The pinnacle of epicurean thought.

**PRYLIS**: OK take a step back, the story is reverse-engineered. There's 3 main characters, and intuition plays a big part in solving the riddle. He is also in clever hell. A clever hell is the burden of knowledge without true self or something like that. 

**ASPIRATION**: Prylis, knocking it out of the park! Now, how is that a larger story, instead of just about me. Because they are the same. The macro and the micro. The atom is the orbit. Gods, but for the wisdom.

**ANGER**: “Reality is this \[gong\]. ... the art of temporarily silencing the mind. Of stopping the chatter in the skull.”

**ASPIRATION**: Ding.

**LOGIC**: Buddhist temples use a gong in the morning and evening to remind the masses not to indulge in unconsciousness and illusions.

**ANGER**: “We find no difference between the listener the sound, the knower and the known, the subject and the object.” Does this not sound like the bicameral mind, anyone?

**ASPIRATION**: We've become increasingly convinced of the Cartesian split. And in the end, there will be only rhinoceroses, if we don't let go of it. And you can call me crazy --and there would be validity in that-- if it weren't for those pesky incursions keeping a light on in a room that you'd probably rather turn the light off in. I think, therefore I am, sees us as the thinker. It's an insanity that can only end in the way that it has. And in the end, only the end.

**SAGA**: In my opinion, 'rhinos' is an allegory for well... complacency. Complacency and ignorance and laziness. 

**ASPIRATION**: Rhinoceros is almost the opposite. This election, the riots, social media, memes, divide and conquer, extremism. These are the makings of a rhinoceros. 

**COMMUNITY**: A single rhinoceros?

**ASPIRATION**: A world of only rhinoceroses. Where, then, will be the man?

**ANGER**: Aspiration says ‘convinced’ of the Cartesian split, not that its true, but that we are more and more convinced of it. I feel like the wording was specific. Didn’t he say that all there is, is what is? Or something like that? There is no mind or body, there just is. Just as there is no gong.

**ASPIRATION**: Treating ourselves as if we are our minds. As if we are our opinions. As if thought were our identities.

**PRYLIS**: If you think you're superior to someone, that doesn't make you superior.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes.

**ANGER**: The inversion of the sense of self? Since a sense of self is typically gained from a collection of opinions and experiences.

**ASPIRATION**: Very, yes.

**LUCIRE**: So an attack on our opinions would be treated as an attack on ourselves?

**ASPIRATION**: Way yes, Lucire!

** PRYLIS**: For example, when your challenged about your opinions on your favorite politician.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. You believe, subconsciously, that you will die if your opinion is wrong. It feels like death. And so? We increasingly defend it with violence. What's left if your opinions die? Simply you, listening to the sound of a gong. Why are you so afraid of it? 

**PRYLIS**: We've given too much weight to our identity, which isn't real.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. And the only way out? Is to die. As the mind. You'll know you're close if it literally feels like you're dying. That's where I've been for three years.

**ANGER**: Identity is a clever hell.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes! Identity is a clever hell.

**ABSTRACTION**: The ego will fight tooth and nail to survive.

**ASPIRATION**: It will tell you you're dying, because you believe you are it, and it is. I'm proud of whoever is following this. And proud of whoever is struggling with it. And proud of anyone who just thinks I'm nuts.

**ANGER**: Ego death.

**ASPIRATION**: Identity death. And you'll rage, and run, and it will come back, over and over again. And eventually, if you aren't too stubborn, you'll accept it, and you'll wake up the next day, even though you're sure you won't.

**ANGER**: I’m very stubborn tho, Aspiration, that’s how I’ve survived this long, haha.

**ASPIRATION**: Anger. This is going to be hard on you. Maybe harder on you than most. But I'm also certain that will turn into an asset. You'll get there. But my friend, relax those knuckles a bit. Not here, out there.

**PRYLIS**: Now, how does one kill its own identity.

**ASPIRATION**: Well, now, that's logically next, now isn't it --of course. I promise, I know you in particular think if you let go it'll consume you. But it won't. So! Homework for this afternoon! Go, be vulnerable. With someone you think you shouldn't be. And young men, in particular. This does not mean an ex. If your father is alive, that might be a good place to start. Quick practice run. Someone, tell me what makes you want to cry. Right here.

_Lots of messages ensue._

**ASPIRATION**: No jokes, no dodges. And you're all certain that vulnerability will lead to rejection.

_More messages._

**ASPIRATION**: You are all telling me generally what makes you want to cry. Concepts. Tell me. A thing that happened. _Between you and another human being_. That makes you want to cry.

_More messages._

**LUCIRE**: I told a friend I wanted to die.

**ASPIRATION**: OK, everyone pause for a minute. Just for a moment. Lucire, thanks for being brave. Let's start here. Shhhh, everyone, and look at what Lucire just typed. How does it make you feel toward him?

**PRYLIS**: Sorry.

**ABSTRACTION**: Empathy, and hope.

**OARC**: Relatable.

**ANGER**: Yes, relatable.

**DENIRA**: Real.

**COMMUNITY**: Like LUCIRE has gone from being another username on Discord to a real person.

**ASPIRATION**: Y'all are saying things around the thing, but those are all just aspects of the thing you want to say.

**ANGER**: A good friend told me suicide is just conservation of pain, it just moves it to another person, That conservation is the only thing keeping a lot of us around, I feel like. A lot of us are passively suicidal. Not that we ever would, but that the occasion would not be saddening to the person if it were to occur.

**ASPIRATION**: Hold up. Pause. Lucire, you still here? You OK? This is scary. 

**ASPIRATION**: Alright, You all said things that pointed to the real thing. But it was telling that you all didn't name it as the thing that it was, and then you intellectualized the process. The real thing, is that when Lucire shared even a little bit of truth, you felt love for him. And that's a scary thing to say on the internet. What he said reminded you of who you are.

**ANGER**: Compassion, It’s typically considered a bit cringe, isn’t it, especially as guys.

**ASPIRATION**: Who benefits from love being cringe! Is it you?

**ANGER**: No one.

**PRYLIS**: Judgement and opinions blocks the light of your potential.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes! So, here, I'll say it. Lucire, man, when you told me that my heart squeezed because I saw you. And I saw you because you got real. And we are all of us real. So, last question before break for homework. Why do people cry? What is the utility of showing an emotional state externally? Why do we physically have tears?

**PRYLIS**: Compassion.

**ANGER**: There’s the shitty answer, that we need validation.

**ASPIRATION**: Interesting gulf between Prylis and Anger's answers. Anger sees the need for being seen as a weakness, Prylis sees it as a strength. But why did evolution spend resources developing an outward representation of these feelings? Crying is pro social. Crying allows us to communicate that we aren't getting our needs met. And, if in a tribal setting, encourages others to run in and address the issue.

**ANGER**: We don’t cry as much anymore, do we.

**ASPIRATION**: No, men do not. I've said this a few times today, women still have a body of knowledge around feelings, and a spoken tradition that encourages what to do with them, that men don't have. Women famously have more intuition because they have less emotional bullshit they are carrying around with them. However, men are very emotional, but only allowed to share that burden with one woman. 

**ASPIRATION**: Go, be vulnerable.

**ASPIRATION**: Find someone who you are afraid of having an emotional conversation with. Be brave. 

**ANGER**: One last thing, if you don’t mind, October, Are you and Nam physically separate people?

**ASPIRATION**: Of course not :)

_And on that day, Lucire left our community, to find his own future._