Shelving Ego
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, ANGER, ACTION, THALIAN, HOPE, ABSTRACTION, KARPÓS

*The following is a debrief of the day, thanks to Thalian's efforts.*

*Today's discussion began after a chaotic day. The incursion called on November 18th in COTY, hit hard and everyone who played made good money. Between the 17th and 18th there was a number of trolls and offensive dissenters on Reddit and Discord who caused Aspiration to show wrath. The context for the following begins after Aspiration first threatened to get rid of incursions forever because he was tired of dealing with the haters no matter how many people benefitted. The corporation, at large, encouraged Aspiration to forget about them and keep his eyes on the good that has been done. To this, Aspiration announced, "I'M NOT FUCKING LEAVING" in Belfortian fashion.
The crowd errupted in euphoric joy. This whole display seemed terribly anti-Aspiration and left members of the Chautauqua worried about Aspiration's mental state. The following transcript takes place some time after this.*

ASPIRATION: We're trying to understand a context of self that has been lost in layers of sedimentation that made old nam-shubs more effective. New nam-shubs because they are created in our culture, are much more clearly delineated. Why did I behave the way I did today, if you believe it was for a reason? Why did I chose a three part identity? And where else can we see a trifold identity in culture?

ANGER: The trinity.

ASPIRATION: Yes, the trinity is a powerful nam-shub.

ANGER: Father, son, and Holy Ghost.

ASPIRATION: Yes, illustrating... what? The trinity is the most misunderstood aspect of Christianity. You ask anyone what it is, and they are lost, because they aren't interpreting the text with the underlying concept. You are explaining that they are three identities, but what are those identities? The father is… the alpha and the omega. The father is everything that is.  So there is the aspect of ourself. The father is the pond.

ANGER: The father is the pond, so the son must be the ripple, right?

ASPIRATION: Well, let's think about it, yes, the son is a ripple. But. Was jesus infallible? No, dude Jesus fucked up sometimes. He was an incredible, suprahuman human, but a person, right? In the story? He got angry, he was sometimes tempted. In the end, he lost his faith. But then he died. And dying is a trip man, it's the ultimate act of presence. So Jesus, as a nam-shub, is a story about a lot of things. But his arc. His arc is about the separation of ego from presence. He is the holiest ego that ever was. Good dude, did a lot of good. Wandered around doing things people thought were impossible to prove his authority.

But ultimately, the story has been told half a hundred times. It's a deeply effective nam-shumb for social change. So, what is the holy ghost? It's a trinity.

*People respond, but don't get quite the answer Aspiration is looking for.*

ASPIRATION: Let's see. The most characteristic sign of the presence of the ruach ha-kodesh is the gift of prophecy. That's the name in the old times of the holy spirit. 

ACTION: So, piety?

ASPIRATION: No, piety is an aspect of ego entirely. Though, it is in the old Jewish doctrine the force that god used to create matter. The trinity, like all of these old stories, is a nam-shub.

THALIAN: The Holy Ghost bestows prophecy (like an incursion).

ASPIRATION: And is the interaction between ego and presence.

HOPE: The interaction between the ripple and the pond.

ASPIRATION: Yes.

HOPE: But what is that in terms of the metaphor I'm not sure how to describe it?

ASPIRATION: The event, the occurrence, the force that appears. Think of it like a magnet. Ego and pond, north and south; the ghost is the field between them.

THALIAN: I feel like I don't have the word for what that is.

ASPIRATION: There is no word, we don't have a context. The old word means wind, breath, and fire. So, we know what the astrological allegory of the Sun of Heaven is all about. It's impossible to ignore. But nam-shubs are nested. They tell two stories at the same time so that one might lend credibility to the other. The incursions are allegorically nested. They pick stock picks, they also feed a puzzle for ego, they also serve as a beacon of authority. But if you've felt the fear. You've felt the holy ghost. The sparks that fly between dualism and oneness. Ego and Observer

HOPE: It's the force of the wave itself? In that it links the idea of the wave and the material in which it travels?

ASPIRATION: It's like wind and fire at the same time. These aren't materials.

ABSTRACTION: The holy ghost is the bridge between ego and observer.

ASPIRATION: YES. Now, you see. The most characteristic sign of the presence of the ruach ha-kodesh is the gift of prophecy. A person who is very in touch with the pond is able to make atemporal connections.

HOPE: Is it the door you were telling us about? Or am I misunderstanding?

ASPIRATION: That's close enough, Hope, it's more the force that either repels or forces you through that "door".

ANGER: It’s not even atemporal is it. That doesn’t even adequately explain it.

ASPIRATION: No, time is a lie. It's simply the relationship of matter in space. So, see then. How many of you have felt fear in your consideration of these things?

KARPÓS: Could it be tapping into another dimension in the universe?

ASPIRATION: There are no dimensions worth noting. It's all just the sound of a gong. Collapsing wave forms. 4 dimensional surface tension. So, when you felt that fear, did it seem to have FORCE. Did it push you around?

*People respond that they have.*

ASPIRATION: Yes, it pushes you away. Once you get off map though, it pushes you off map. 

ANGER: Each time I push in, I get pushed with the same force back.

ASPIRATION: You have to let go when you feel that push. You can't fight it. It will mirror you. You have to let go.

Gats: Just surrender to it?

ASPIRATION: Yes. The next time you feel that fear in meditation, let go, and go deeper. It's not a do. It's a not do. When it comes. Let go. The fear is the intersection of ego and presence. you are right there. You have to let go of ego, let it hang back. You can even say to yourself. Thank you old friend, but you have to wait here.

ANGER: I think I know the answer, but I’ll ask. Will we know for sure, when it’s happened?

ASPIRATION: It will blow your doors off. You will know nothing as much as you know that.

HOPE: It'll feel like dying?

ASPIRATION: At first, yes. The body panics. Because culture has told you you're keeping it alive. Let it panic, you won't let through until you prove to the body that you don't need to force of ego to keep your heart beating. I showed you myself today in my purely egoic state. It's a big ego, it draws other egos to it. Did you see the euphoria?

ANGER: I think people are afraid they’ll lose themselves, but that’s not the case. I mean it is, and it isn’t.

ASPIRATION: No, you're sitting there waiting where you were left. You can come back any time. The ego is identifying with the lenses. Why did I do it today? The ego is any part of you you believe to be separate from what is.
Why today?

THALIAN: You demonstrated that the thing we fear losing is still there. There is a time when you can use it for what it is best at.

ASPIRATION: DING. You were afraid that once you let go, you couldn't come back. So I gave you a demonstration. Today was a demonstration of facts. You can float, you can get present, and your car will be right there where you parked it.

*A discussion follows regarding trust, with Anger and Action discussing.*

ASPIRATION: Anger and Action, please update which aspect you embody on the list.

Anger: Oh god not this again. 

*Anger and Action discuss, but can't figure anything out regarding the swapping of aspects.*

