# A Clever Hell

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, COMMUNITY, PRYLIS, PARAMIA, SKEPSI 

**ASPIRATION**: A clever hell is something that I am personally trapped in, without the blessing of self. The story is my story, culture and I are on the same trajectory. I'm trying to find a way to say goodbye that leaves good in the world. Because I found a way out. And I have to say goodbye. Which is a death, or sorts. But a loving one.

_And I just don't want to be alone while I do it._

And before anyone asks, this is not about suicide by any means. It's time for me to go, but it's a hard and lonely process. I've developed some incredible skills while I've been here, and one of those is how to predict. And I just want everyone to see that _I existed, that I was, that I cared, that I was capable,_ before the dawn comes and this is gone. Because they are both beautiful and awesome and worthwhile.

But only _one_ is true. The culture is deeply damaged. We are traumatized, we don't trust, we dissociate as a species, we cause harm.

And my story, how I do it, is the same story as the culture.

_Boy, milk and mild_  
_Made still and wide eyed_  
_By sharp hearts before him_  
_Became chasm, canyon wide and wailing_  
_yelling and wind and flashing eyes_  
_With no warm walls for the breaking_

_And so bore it, until dark days made vision dim_  
_and wind chorused in ears to echo there_  
_Long after both had broken_  
_with cold and fear for shelter_

_Found then by broad smiles_  
_And warm earth calloused hands,_  
_Among green leaves cloistered unashamed of their need for the sun_  
_He saw no strength here from the storm_  
_No sinews stretched and hardened_  
_No hearts made rock to withstand their own beating_

_And learned_  
_That strength is in the leaning_  
_and love is in its giving_  
_That food is in the feeding_  
_That the wind is not everywhere_  
_It only rings now in his ears when riotous love_  
_Has drifted off in her warmth._

**ASPIRATION**: I'm shooting for an enlightened state, and I'm trying to drag you gentle people with me.

**COMMUNITY**: _"If you get the message, hang up the phone."_ \- Alan Watts

**ASPIRATION**: It is described in various ways. Enlightenment or satori is an old world way to describe it. Spontaneous integration is probably what we'd call it now.

This part of me knows it's time to go, and isn't sad about it, but wants support through it. Wants comfort from people. Comfort which may be, incidentally, the entire reason I did all of this.

_Just presence, acknowledgement, regard._

Maslow's Pyramid probably tells you want you need to know.

**PRYLIS**: Would you say there's a selfish factor in all of this?

**ASPIRATION**: Of course, that's why I'm giving. Hopefully, what I'm asking for is counterbalanced entirely with what I'm trying to give away. I mean, what does a dying man gain from having his bed surrounded, even if it's just by strangers? And what would he pay to make sure he's seen and known in those moments?

What I know is _the way out._

And I'll totally trade you.

Then, when I'm done, I get to go away, you get to go away, we all get to go on with our lives knowing this cool thing happened.

I'm passing the exit plans from the burning building, skills to get you out of a burning house will always come in handy. You never know when you'll find yourself in one.

And I happen to believe we're _all in one right now._

So now you know why I post incursions. Who would follow me otherwise, unless I seemed like an authority, someone with something to give?

**PARAMIA**: Are we all gonna make it out?

**ASPIRATION**: I don't know, I'm not supernatural.

But, do me a favor. Did anyone here today feel an aspect of their humanity surface while talking to these strangers on the internet? Feel something profound? A sense or presence and community maybe, that maybe felt a bit like sadness and togetherness at the same time?

**SKEPSI**: If you are not an authority, there will be no need to follow. Evidence of being an authority reduces the odds of this just being schizophrenia.

**ASPIRATION**: Exactly, it is my only proof to you that I'm for real. I considered lots of ways of verifying that, Before I settled in the stock market. It's one of the reasons it took 9 years.

And how interesting, that the people I'm surrounding myself with are all gathered from Wall Street bets. Maybe we're all just human, after all.

**PRYLIS**: Also interesting about your comment on memes but runs a successful meme thread. Contradictory.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, I had to fully understand the problem to comment on it, and I can only be sure I understand once I've mastered it.

**PRYLIS**: I know one of your messages and/or warnings is how the people are being divided which is also why you've taken the time to make sure we reflected on how we've acted as a group to try and figure you out.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, I'm utilizing my gift to bring you together to figure it out.

**SKEPSI**: Who is your number one inspiration in life?

**ASPIRATION**: I don't have one, I deeply mistrust authority. Inspirational people are de-facto authority figures. So I sought to become my own inspirational person.

And that's not healthy.

### On dreams.

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, PRYLIS, MANAS, ANGER, TACHIKA

**ASPIRATION**: A farm with lots of guest cabins is my dream. A big fire pit for friends to play _music_ and _flirt_ and _chat_ and _laugh around_, with happy dogs and children playing in the background. It's all I've ever wanted.

I've been lucky. I'm good at making money. I've never felt compelled to stay at a job. But that freedom didn't make me happy. I'm successful with women, and it didn't make me happy. By every metric, I am a success story.

_But I live in a clever hell._

At some point all of us abandoned ourselves for the expectations of others. And that version of us sits inside of us, saddened, feeling lonely and betrayed. And we wonder why nothing brings joy.

The only thing I care that my daughter takes from me is that her father loves her to the end of the earth, for exactly the way she was born to be.

_No expectations_, just boundless devotion and love.

**MANAS**: Well everyone does everything for attention. Whether it’s to give themselves more attention from themselves and make themselves feel better or to get attention from others. Humans are social animals, we’re born to socialize.

**ASPIRATION**: We die without other people.  
I'll tell the story about each person simply being the nexus of others perspectives another time. That one really takes it out of me.

You are all real. Right now.  
_And every. Single. One. Of you needs to be seen for who you are, to be loved for exactly what you are._

Like, it's _just_ the internet, but the internet can carry empathy.

**PRYLIS**: Actually I'd like to hear everyone take on why we exist.

**ASPIRATION**: I don't know why. Why is a signpost to a destination, but not the destination itself. _The sentence "the sound of a bell" is not the sound of a bell._

Here's the thing.  
I know how lonely social media has made you. That our networks claim to have gone online, but that didn't really translate, did it? Instagram and Snapchat aren't the same as crying in front of your friend when your dog dies, is it?

_I'm trying to tackle that, with just a few people, hoping it will spread._

**ANGER**: Well isn't it interesting in a sense we've been talking all day for days, really, but we know nothing about another one of us.

**ASPIRATION**: And if you can't see someone's face, you feel like you can't know if they are trustworthy. But ultimately, it's what is making us feel lonely. This, the incursions, I had to prove authority, so you could trust. So we could talk.

**PRYLIS**: Another contradiction, you know we have to trust but you want skepticism.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, I want them in healthy balance.

**TACHIKA**: Skepticism keeps us grounded

**ASPIRATION**: And communion keeps us thriving.

**PRYLIS**: ASPIRATION... is the burning house poverty?

**ASPIRATION**: The burning house is the dominant culture. There is a reason suicides are skyrocketing.

**PRYLIS**: Dominant culture restricted to the united states?

**ASPIRATION**: No, it's infesting everywhere

### The Sound of a Gong

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, ANGER, PARAMIA, THOS

**ASPIRATION**: The sound of a gong, the sound of a gong, the sound of a gong is not:  
[https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=PvncVl6jbbw](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=PvncVl6jbbw)

**ANGER**: Alright fellas, who's good at spectro-analysis.

**ASPIRATION**: Just, listen to the gong.

_No thinking._

Just separate the words "the sound of a gong" from the actual sound of a gong.

Listen _intently_ to the gong, until the sound completely dies. So intensely that you don't think.  
Stop _thinking_ your way into the gong. And go _listen_, then come back.  
Stop making judgement, jumps, or conclusions.  
Just _listen_ to the sound of a gong.  
And notice that you are _offline_ for a moment.  
Come back with the _blankness_.  
_Listen_ again.

I love any of you who come back with jokes because that blankness makes you feel like you have to fill things in, but I'll mute you for now for the rest of the listeners.

_One more time._ Listen to the sound of the gong, come back. And tell me you're back.

_What_. In this moment. Is _lacking_?

**PARAMIA**: Thoughts, noise.

**ASPIRATION**: Do you miss them when they are gone?

**PARAMIA**: No.

**ASPIRATION**: Did you cease to exist while they were gone?

**THOS**: It gave me a sense of uneasiness.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, the gong can bring about a sense of existential dread. The ego shuts up and worries that it has died.

So, if you are experiencing quiet, a lack of thoughts, a lack of anxiety. What are you?

Not the _mind_, it was quiet, you remained.

Forgive me if I'm telling you something you know, we've all got to be in the same page and that means bringing some up to speed.

**ANGER**: Are we the gong?

**ASPIRATION**: You are, in a very real way, the effect. Of the gongs cause. It was forged, bought, played, recorded, stored, mentioned, and transmitted all for you to be ready for it.

**ANGER**: You aren't saying its predetermined, are you.

**ASPIRATION**: No, I'm saying you were present for it, but you are not your feelings or thoughts about it.

_You do not have to be good._  
_You do not have to walk on your knees_  
_for a hundred miles through the desert repenting._  
_You only have to let the soft animal of your body_  
_love what it loves._  
_Tell me about despair, yours, and I will tell you mine._  
_Meanwhile the world goes on._  
_Meanwhile the sun and the clear pebbles of the rain_  
_are moving across the landscapes,_  
_over the prairies and the deep trees,_  
_the mountains and the rivers._  
_Meanwhile the wild geese, high in the clean blue air,_  
_are heading home again._  
_Whoever you are, no matter how lonely,_  
_the world offers itself to your imagination,_  
_calls to you like the wild geese, harsh and exciting -_  
_over and over announcing your place_  
_in the family of things._[1](http://www.phys.unm.edu/~tw/fas/yits/archive/oliver_wildgeese.html)

**ASPIRATION**: Homework for tonight. Get outta here and go be your soft animal selves. Stop thinking, simply be. Listen to the gong for a reminder. And you'll be in a much better place to make progress on my story. _Because you can't solve it by thinking, just as you can't out think the stock market_.