They know not what they do.
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, ORUS, INTROSPECTION, PSYARO, HOPE, ABSTRACTION, FAHIN, PRYLIS, THOS

ASPIRATION: Story time. What, in this moment, is lacking?

*People give responses, like faith, empathy, context, etc.*

ASPIRATION: This very moment. In yourself. In the present, what is lacking? You are not present. Be present. Listen.

https://youtu.be/PvncVl6jbbw

Listen to the sound, close your eyes. And what, in that moment of listening, is lacking? We are a culture built on a presupposition that is incorrect. Two, actually, but we'll focus on one. The correct answer is nothing

ORUS: We are conditioned to believe we lack something.

ASPIRATION: Yes. It is used as a motive force for you. In THIS moment. Nothing is missing. And then you, as you were trained to do, add two things to this moment. You add lamentation of the past, and fear of the future. And, because you've been acculturated to do so, you compulsively invite those two ideas into the present moment. And you make up a story about lack. Right now, I am in my dissociated, culture forward state. And I am hurting because I'm afraid you won't get it. What is the flaw in that thought process?

INTROSPECTION: It's fear of an event in the future.

PSYARO: Worried about the future.

HOPE: We already have it and we don't know it?

ASPIRATION: Yes to all. If in any given moment, everything is fine, why do I do this? Why do you do this?

ABSTRACTION: Because we are afraid.

ASPIRATION: Why are you afraid?

FAHIN: Because we're burdened with knowledge of what the future might hold.

ASPIRATION: Speculation about the future is the opposite of knowledge.

Codi: We inherited the fear.

ASPIRATION: Ding. Lacking context, what does the phrase "The wages of sin is death?" Mean? Anyone? Well, maybe we should start earlier, what is the original definition of sin?

HOPE: To miss the mark.

ASPIRATION: Ding. To miss the mark. What is the definition of mark? Think of a countdown. The original definition of mark means: NOW. Mark can also be considered "right here, right now". On your mark. Be where you are supposed to be. On my mark. The "mark" of Cain. Sin means to miss the mark of Cain. To forget presence. The mark of Cain is simply an indication that our cultural forbearer, Cain - is indicated by a loss of presence.

ABSTRACTION: The mark of Cain has been passed down.

ASPIRATION: Yes. Cain is our cultural father. What happens when our cultural father spent time with the cultural father of presence? What happened, in the story?

ABSTRACTION: He killed them.

ASPIRATION: Ding. The wages of sin is death. Read it again. It is a nested statement. In many ways, the result of judgement meant death to any who did not have that concept. It is also an internal death. It is also an edict. And a warning. The story of genesis was written by a culture that didn't have "I". It isn't an origin story to be taken literally, it is a Chautauqua to present humans, a nam-shub of warning. Look out for these crazy people, you will know them by their lack of presence. They have the mark. They knew, as surely as you do now, that this was the birth of the first rhinoceros, and that it would never end. The fitness of that first meme was so overpowering to humans that it almost completely eradicated presence of mind. And now you, and everyone you know, has this meme operating in your head. It has almost completely drowned out your own thoughts.

This state of mind is so damaging that your brain can't quite look at it directly. All of you, every single one, harbors a fear that everyone besides you gets it. Because you cannot imagine that other people are just as scared, disorganized, erratic, and hurtful as what goes on in your head. But everyone you know is scared. Nobody knows what's going on. Everyone fears the future. Everyone wonders why they are so bad. It's why conspiracy theories spread. You desperately need to believe in authority! SOMEONE MUST BE RUNNING THINGS. Nobody is there, there is no pilot, there is no man at the tiller. Someone must be better than me! Someone must have control!

Nobody, not people in the government, not wealthy people, not shadowy foreign actors is steering this thing. The MEME is driving. The only way out is not to play. And that will take a lot of practice. We forgive children, don't we, for being erratic. We forgive them because we know in some way they haven't been fully acculturated. To our form of judgement. 

Look at your relationship to your parents. You get so angry when you find out they are just people. WHERE THEN IS THE AUTHORITY, SOMEONE MUST HAVE IT, HOW DARE IT NOT BE THEY! The meme is judgement, knowledge of what is good and what is bad. We are all children. This is a damaging game we have made up. But the head child is just as scared and confused as you are. 

_**Homework**_

The next time you are irritated, imagine that the person irritating you is a 5 year old playing a game, who is terrified because they don't know how to stop playing. The next time you rage at someone in traffic, or get angry at your coworker, or feel the sting of loss. "forgive them father, they know not what they do". Father, as we have explored, is the "I am". The pond. The story of the crucifixion is manifold. 

PRYLIS: Then we should also be forgiving to ourselves, as we embody the 5 year old as well.

ABSTRACTION: You are asking as the ripple to the pond, and hopefully the ghost will calm down.

ASPIRATION: Yes, but start with others, it's much easier to do that than forgive yourself.

THOS: Seems like I've been the 5 year old all this time. Especially towards my parents. 

ASPIRATION: We all are. We're all scared. Imagine a world in which you aren't scared.

THOS: I wish I could take back every time I've yelled at my parents over bullshit. And yet they just stood there and didn't get mad at me.

ASPIRATION: Thos, the only thing you have is now. Stop punishing a 5 year old, yourself. You "knew not what you did".

_End story time_.







