title
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, ABSTRACTION, GRANDIOSITY, INTROSPECTION, SAGA, ANIATIO, PRYLIS, ACTION, ARBALO, ERAS, ANGER, HOPE

ASPIRATION: How is everyone doing with their homework? Any questions about yesterday?

ABSTRACTION: It went OK, I had a hard time being in the mindset of a parent because I myself do not have kids.

GRANDIOSITY: I still need to start from the beginning with the homeworks.

ASPIRATION: Abstraction, do you have a kid in the world you like?

ABSTRACTION: I don't know about a kid, but people who are a little younger than me who I look out for.

ASPIRATION: We need a kid, like, 5; for the exercise. Do you have any special dislike of children? Ok if you do, not judging.

ABSTRACTION: No, I just don't have any in my life right now.

ASPIRATION: Alright, try this. Take the worst thing that happened to you when you were a kid. Bring it up in your mind. Doesn't have to be some hellscape story. Can be, doesn't have to be. And then imagine what you would do, now, as yourself, if you saw that happening to some lost 5 year old on the street.

ABSTRACTION: Hmmm I would have to think on that for a bit.

ASPIRATION: Yesterdays homework will have the most utility for those who have some self hate issues. But the story of a parent injuring their child through unconsidered acculturation is universal.

INTROSPECTION: Of course. I thought it was an engaging and useful tool honestly. Makes a lot of sense.

SAGA: hm I just thought of that question and tbh I don't know what I'd do because, I mean idk that it's my place to intervene.

ASPIRATION: What would Saga the man do, to comfort Saga the child. Essentially, what should have happened, if a present, powerful, emotionally well adjusted, and loving adult was in the room.

SAGA: Watching my dad get arrested for grand theft auto and possession of illegal firearms… Ugh shit man that's hard.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, man, I know it is. And I'm sorry it's hard.

SAGA: I had a tough childhood and I suppress a lot of it and feel as though I've gotten past it, tell those past stories as if they're a joke to me. So I don't know, I'll need time to think on that question.

ASPIRATION: Of course, how could you have done anything else? That's a learned strategy to survive the situation. 

SAGA: I mean even with the knowledge I have today, what would I say to my younger self? 'it's going to be okay?' I know it's going to be okay with what I know now. But then, I grapple with realism as the only choice.

ASPIRATION: All I'm saying is this. If you're struggling with internal self hate, it's because you minimised some shit that happened to you.  And in doing that, you dehumanised yourself. *Essentially by saying he/I doesn't deserve this*. That's why the homework. The biggest hurdle toward being well adjusted after some shit went down in childhood is simply admitting that it was bad. Once you can do that, you can develop a strategy to get out. Until you do that, every though around that diminishes your self worth.

ANIATIO: I think one barrier for me is that I dont think what I went through is as bad as what others have had to suffer. Do while I can admit it was bad, others have definitely had it worse

ABSTRACTION: Same.

ASPIRATION: Hope, That is the uniform battle cry of people who had it bad. Look at that last sentence. "Others had it worse" has absolutely nothing to do with you. It's a false comfort.  And it minimizes your experience, and so minimizes you. 

So, if a kid on the street gets hit by a car and breaks his arm. Are you gonna walk up to him and say. "Tough shit, kid, I heard about a kid that had his back broken." Or are you going to do everything in your power to help that kid and stop his pain. 

ANIATIO: Yea that makes sense. Sometimes I don't treat myself with the same kindness I show others.

ASPIRATION: Because when you tell me others had it worse, that's what you're doing to yourself. And then you wonder why you suffer from self hate. Pain isn't a contest. It doesn't have to meet a certain threshold before you do something about it.

ABSTRACTION: This is something men have a big issue with.

ASPIRATION: Yes, and look at the state of men. Not all men, but overall. 

ABSTRACTION: Not great.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, we bottle everything, the only person we get emotional in front of is our women, we bond over little bullshit, and we're so, so, afraid to show emotion.

ANIATIO: I can feel myself wanting to elastically shitpost right now. But that's the point right? Observe these reactions and understand they're valid?

ASPIRATION: Awesome! Do that if it's bad enough, or sit and feel it burn and wonder why for a few minutes. Whatever's best. Look. All emotions are true, that doesn't mean they are right. But they are always true, they are always what is happening. Here is the fucked up thing. You see a man, any man, cry over something you think is legitimate in public, you have the opposite reaction. If a general cries over his lost troops. If a black man cries over his struggle in civil rights… Look, I'm not joking when I say that this single biggest threat to our society is right here. We're talking about it. Everything you see, all the violence, all the drug use, every alchoholic, every despot, most violent crime.

This is the root of it. The answer is eventually empathy. But the real answer is vulnerability. Be human, start by being human to yourself. Comfort the kid who just broke his fucking arm. Stop the bullshit. Then, if you're really, really brave. Show someone else that it hurts. 

ANIATIO: In the social dilemma one of the big points is that social media and software companies are both causing and profiting off of small unnoticeable changes in our behavior and thoughts. Is there a way technology could be harnessed to help people be more vulnerable and empathetic to each other?

ASPIRATION: I mean… This. Right here. That's the story, that's the whole ball of wax. I've stopped doing pretty much everything else. This is what I've dedicated myself to. 

ABSTRACTION: It seems like everyone here needed this, even if they didn't know it at the time.

ASPIRATION: You mean everyone here is human.

INTROSPECTION: It's a bold idea. I appreciate the direction and the effort. It's a large, bold, idea.

ASPIRATION: Yeah. I've been working on it for decades. I'll be honest, the fact that it seems to be working… Is mind blowing. The letters I've been getting over the last several weeks keep making me cry with gratitude and empathy. 

ANIATIO: It really feel's like we're at a pivot point.

ASPIRATION: We are, I started it right at the point I meant to. The Corporation was empty for 8 years. Then 6 months ago people started trickling in. 6 weeks ago it started taking off. Now overnight we have almost 7 thousand members. And in a week we have a discord of 1700 people. Now it can grow organically, and I don't have to result to theatrics to get people to pay attention.

INTROSPECTION: Do you think it will?

ASPIRATION: Yeah. And once it does, I can step away and you guys can take the steps forward and I can just be a part of it instead of the head of it. Because I can't be a leader for very long, it'll go to my head, and I'll lose something I worked so hard to get.

INTROSPECTION: A lot of Jain epistemology here, as was touched on, and even ethics to some extent. Though, I suppose that's to be expected. But as an ontological framework, a lot of blending between philosophies as you said, because there is overlap in ideas over time. 

That's a good level of self awareness, though, Aspiration.

ASPIRATION: Essentially this. What I'm trying to do is illustrate that you've seen paintings of this place all your life. All I'm trying to do is say "Those paintings are of a real place, I've been there". And that place isn't reserved for dudes in robes and long beards.  The most ridiculous options bro can get there without much effort. 

ANIATIO: Not to shill The Good Place, again, but this conversation reminds me of another quote: "People improve when they get external love and support. How can we hold it against them when they don't?"

ASPIRATION: Here is something destructive about our society. We say "You can't love others, without loving yourself". How in the hell, exactly, are you supposed to do that? That's exactly the same thing as "picking yourself up by your bootstraps". It's bullshit, it's physically impossible to generate something that isn't already there. The key isn't to love yourself.  It's to become vulnerable enough that you can receive it. And then, once you have a little, you can start loving a little yourself.

INTROSPECTION: It's funny how broadly this applies. Across disciplines and fields of knowledge. There are pieces that align. Really cool to see, actually.

ASPIRATION: The atom is the orbit. The universe keeps saying it over and over again. The micro is macro.

ANIATIO: If everything is the same pond, then it makes sense that we would see the different droplets everywhere.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, the universe LOVES allegory. It's a constant law of allegory. If you see it one place, you'll see it repeated everywhere.

INTROSPECTION: If this goes the direction you think it will, you'll have really changed something for many people (or more importantly shown them how to change it themselves). I don't doubt you already have obviously. I'm hopeful.

ASPIRATION: Introspection, if I do it's because people did the same for me.

INTROSPECTION: Allegory, like a ripple through time.

ASPIRATION: Time, space. It's difficult to explain, but once you see it, you see it everywhere. If it happened in the past, it'll happen in the future, if you can see it in an atom, you'll see it with a planet. Nautilus shells and spinning galaxies.

INTROSPECTION: Yea that's what I was just noticing. It's wild how much overlap there is, repetition, even.

ASPIRATION: History repeats itself because time is just space in motion.

PRYLIS: I think I've just had a leap as to why it's so hard for me to take a compliment. Well it's exactly what you've said from self hatred. Correct me if I'm wrong, please, but from what I understand: let's say I tell someone they're amazing and they give that unauthentic thank you (probably means they don't believe it), therefore they're not vulnerable enough to accept the love which may contradict their beliefs about themselves (self hatred or insecurity) therefore it's hard for them to take the compliment and digest it. 

Had they been vulnerable enough to accept it, it would grow a little spark in themselves (a bit of love for themselves) and it would have been thanks to me saying they're amazing (showing love). Throwing up walls actually makes you hate yourself more.

ASPIRATION: Good leap there. Strong, healthy human beings love compliments. It takes vulnerability to give a real one. And just so everyone is clear, I'm NOT saying that women love to be cat called. I'm saying a genuine compliment that took some time and thought to formulate is a gift. It's seeing the other person and being vulnerable enough to put yourself out there. And gifts are wonderful, if you have a hard time receiving one, then maybe you think you don't deserve them because deep down, you think you're a bit of a piece of shit. And if you think that, you've internalized some big or small trauma.

PRYLIS: Aspiration, what's your thoughts on overprotection?

ASPIRATION: From a parent?

PRYLIS: Yeah, that'd be a good place to start.

ASPIRATION: What unresolved trauma do you suppose that person is dealing with if they think the world so dangerous? 

ACTION: But isn't there the factor that men are simply not used to get compliments? We are so bottled up that men don't give each-other any compliments so when someone eventually DOES, it seems like they want something external from you?

ASPIRATION: Why are men unused to getting compliments? 

ACTION: Societal norms where men are less empathetic and less emotional.

ASPIRATION: Yeah. Well, we have to be careful here, because there is a very real schism that we have to deal with. 

ACTION: I've noticed this in Americans, alot of Americans are resistant to any contact. It its very common in Ukraine to compliment, to hug it out, to open up atleast a little but Americans are suuuuuuper tight on that.

INTROSPECTION: In general, do men not receive compliments?

ASPIRATION: Specifically, if you are talking about romantic comments from your preferred gender, that's another ball of wax that we'll unpack.

But anyway. Many, many Americans are still holding on to the cultural patterns of the the Boarders.  Our national identity is shaped in part by the descendants of VERY traumatized people coming from the contested region of scotland and england. These were people who were raped, pillaged, and murdered every time there was a skirmish between Scotland and England, they were the single largest group of immigrants to the US when we were forming our national identity. You now know them as "Republicans". That's why they are so fixated on concerns of freedom from government and the right to arm themselves. Who could blame them with that past history.

The other side of that political spectrum was informed by quakers and puritans. Deep belief that self betterment, education, self control, and connection were the ways to a better world. Or, as we now call them, "Democrats".

Isn't it just a little amazing that the things americans hate each other for are simply the unresolved trauma of their past culture? If you can see them, clearly, then you can have enough compassion to see why a point of view opposing yours is valid. It's true, it doesn't mean it's right.

ACTION: And yet thats really the only thing really dividing us, huh? Just the way we hurt, the way it shaped us and how we bottled it up. If we just open up a little, give a little time and empathy to the other side maybe it would be better for all of us.

ASPIRATION: Exactly. We're all humans. Compassion comes from knowledge. If you can't be compassionate to someone else, it's because you don't know them well enough; that's why this all starts with vulnerability. 

PRYLIS: Compassion is the endgame.

ASPIRATION: Yes. The last phase. Compassion cures rhinos.

PRYLIS: Because compassion comes from a state of vulnerability, love and understanding.

ASPIRATION: Yeah. But really, all of this stuff already exists. It's an emergent quality of simply understanding, of being present. You guys who have been here a minute have seen rhinos charge at me with terror in their eyes. I just stay present, and don't fear. And then compassion comes. Those rhinos, if they didn't quit the server entirely in fear and rage end up coming around, they learn and see themselves more clearly. 

INTROSPECTION: You knew that would happen and did it anyways, as a demonstration of how to react in the future in the way you were showing, and it ended up working perfectly.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, like I said, it was an incursion.

PRYLIS: For example, rich showing compassion for poor? 1% America for 99% Africa?

ASPIRATION: That's macro level stuff. We can't change how the macro behaves, we can change how we behave and help that spread. 

PRYLIS: Micro is macro, macro is micro?

ASPIRATION: Yes. The end is the beginning. The story being told in reverse. The effect is the cause. I keep saying that... it was probably for a reason. 

This is ultimately the folly of both sides of the political spectrum. Both wish to control outcomes. You can't control an outcome, what will be will always be what has already been. But you can control the beginning. Right now. The Rhino's Lament. I wish for things outside of me to change. What a silly thing to think could be. Wanting the 7 ball to go in the corner pocket without hitting the que ball first.

PRYLIS: Aspiration, at the stage we're at now, do the tickers still matter? In terms of the story.

ASPIRATION: Not at all unless you just like the brain exercise.

INTROSPECTION: It's wild. The roots of what you're saying are found in so many different aspects of philosophy, ethics, morals, religion, science and physics, metaphysics, psychology, writing and literature. It's like an answer to a question that you didn't see everyone else was asking, echoing back years.

ASPIRATION: The funny thing about a tree that exists is that lots of people from the region will tell you about it. And it doesn't matter how many other people ignore it. 

INTROSPECTION: I have been reading supplemental things that relate. Would it be helpful for anyone else to have either references to other writings in time, that echo some of these ideas, catalogued? Or a list of books or external sources that touch on similar ideas? I know it's helped me to see a more... universal aspect to this, that I respect. I wouldn't want to distract from what you're trying to do if you think it would take away rather than add though.

ASPIRATION: The only problem with that is the sheer volume of literature and art that points to this. Pretty soon you would just have to point to the library of congress and say. It's in there... EVERYWHERE. Once you've been there, you can see it everywhere. But also, you can see the guys who have really had the experience vs the guys who haven't. Some guys sell this without having ever been there. Eckhart Tolle has been there, Bill Hicks has been there, Alan Watts has been there. My teacher, Bhagavan Das has been there, but he has a really hard time STAYING there. 

Bill Hicks is a comedian. Well, was. Dude points the way, but he doesn't live it a lot of the time. He's really into the guru vibe. Likes his booze and the young hippie chicks, Who wouldn't?

ARBALO: Or at least, the reality that the majority of our society subscribes to.

ASPIRATION: I'm secure enough in my interpretation of what is that societies thoughts don't really bother me. This feeds me and keeps me sane far more than society does. You just stop caring, and then the strangest thing happens. Everyone starts following you around; it's like the middle schoolers of the world. Everyone is DYING to be like everyone else. But it's only those who aren't who are highly regarded. The only way to be cool is to not give a shit about being cool.

INTROSPECTION: I've had this on a more local level. But I worry my ego will be a downfall then so I don't pursue it

ASPIRATION: Like I've said before.  Your ego is tissue paper made to look like a monster. Just let go. It'll feel like you're falling into a Sarlac pit, but it's a lie. 

PRYLIS: Aspiration, for those in that state, or off the map, I've noticed a common thread and it's almost like a form of omnipresence; therefore making it easy for stock picks, for example. It's like an understanding of everything simultaneously, right?

ASPIRATION: Yes, they are witnessing a living system and commenting on it. It makes people who are staring at a map think they are magic. If you have a very detailed drawing of a cat, and I have a cat. It's going to look like I have supernatural powers of description, calling out things you simply can't see.

PRYLIS: Multidimensional vs 2D, on the map is 2D.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, exactly. Like the end of... that movie. _Interstellar_. Or like the book flatlanders. But you can't get caught up man. The next challenge of letting go of your ego will be letting go of mine. Because you've got the cat, already. My cat isn't special.

PRYLIS: How long did it take you to get off the map?

ASPIRATION: Suddenly all at once, and then very slowly.

PRYLIS: So a leap.

ASPIRATION: More like a car crash, for me. It was fucking AWFUL. I wasn't ready, I had no business being there, and it very nearly caused me to kill myself. That's why I don't like hallucinogens. They can take people who aren't ready off the map. I'm trying to get you guys to do this with friends around you. Because it's going to get hairy. When I tell you it feels like you're falling into a Sarlac pit, I'm not lying. You will think you are dying. Not metaphorically. Physically. You're gonna want some nice people around you to tell you you're OK. If one of you fell in that pit right now and weren't ready, I would straight up get on an airplane and show up at your house.

PRYLIS: Exiting the map sober is going to be a painfully slow process, huh.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, it doesn't feel good. The only thing worse is going in not sober. Oh, the other thing I want you to note is. I'm not there a lot of the time. I'm fully embodied in my ego right now. 

INTROSPECTION: So you're transient.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, that's why I don't want to be a leader. I'm selfish. I can't both lead you away from the map and be off the map. But as soon as a few of you fall into the Sarlac pit and find out it was a pillow fort the whole time, I'm the fuck outta here. 

PRYLIS: So your exit leads to off the map for good?

ASPIRATION: I don't know, it's hard to predict my own future.

INTROSPECTION: But you see glimpses of ours?

ASPIRATION: No, not really. When I'm off the map I sort of see everything at once and out of focus. It's hard to describe. I can see the structure of the building, but I can't count the windows. I knew this would grow, I didn't know we'd be using Discord. I knew Humor was important, I didn't know she would serve too keep everyone here from believing in the supernatural. 

INTROSPECTION: I'm not sure if what I see is the future, or just a logical conclusion from intuition I can't explain. Maybe it's just the present even, differently described; I'd think the latter.

ASPIRATION: If you can see now clearly, you can see later.

PRYLIS: So, incursions are just educated guesses?

ASPIRATION: Incursions are just seeing what is. I just. See them, like you see anything. 

GRANDIOSITY: When Aspiration says he goes "off the map," does that means he's disassociating?

ASPIRATION: It means I'm associating. I've lost my fear of the fear. But I still feel the fear. 

ERAS: The more he talks, the more human he gets.

ASPIRATION: The end is the beginning, my dude.

PRYLIS: Chad robot to human, dissociative to associative. 

ASPIRATION: And then human to what?

PRYLIS: Chad robot to human to god?

ASPIRATION: Other way.... Prylis. Chad robot is a construct, human is less of one. Opposite of the construct is the opposite of the map. It is simply what is.

PRYLIS: There's thought and then there's deeper thought and then there's no thought.

ANGER: The curse of self-hypercriticality and overthinking.

PRYLIS: We're stuck at deep thought, which is almost worst because we have the burden of being aware that we're the ones blocking it.

ANGER: A clever hell, perhaps.

ASPIRATION: Whoa! Well done at picking up the "clever hell" everyone.

HOPE: Something I've been thinking about… So the idea of determinism, or that we don't have free will is true, because if everything just is; there's not really time per se, right?

final_October: Free will/not free will is a false dichotomy. It's a lie, the entire argument. A stable meme. How can the universe not do as it wills? Free will is a construction of the ego. You are the pond. That's why there is no answer, the question is nonsensical.

HOPE: Are you saying that there’s no question of free will or not free will because it depends on the idea that there are individual actors, when in reality everything is the pond?

final_October: Yes. Does a ripple have free will? Of course not. Do you? We've got to establish what you are, firmly. People involved in "self improvement" are beating themselves over the head. You're trying to change the course of a ripple once the rock has been thrown? Good luck. This is going to be hard for me to lay down. The context is still missing for me to share. You've just got to accept the ripple, man. Step back from it. But you have to establish that YOU ARE NOT IT first. Or else what is there to step back from? 

Step one. See the ripple. Step two... where we are. Accept the ripple. Stop thrashing, be compassionate toward yourself. Stop blaming the ripple for being itself. Step three? Take a step back.