20201109
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, PRYLIS, MERFOTIA, LOGIC, ANGER, THOS, THALIAN, SAGA, FAHIN, APEIRON, ELIAUO, HEART, INTROSPECTION, DELOIA

ASPIRATION: Feeling a bit sad today.  I'm glad everyone made money - it's just hard to communicate that isn't the point. But they would change so much more if they got it. 

PRYLIS: What would be a lesson to take from today?

ASPIRATION: I guess that it's really easy to get excited when you think something is going to make you happy.  It's what makes the world run. You buy a beautiful car, and you're so happy. Two weeks later you're stuck in traffic and it's the same experience as the Kia you traded in. 

PRYLIS: Keyword being think ?

ASPIRATION: Yes, keyword think. It's hard to explain. Happiness moves a bit like options. It overreacts to small changes. But usually expires worthless. 

MERFOTIA: I can relate with your sentiment of pursuing happiness over anything else. But, piggy backing over your example listed above, I think I'd be much happier waiting in traffic in my Lambo than waiting in traffic in my Kia.

ASPIRATION: That's what I'm saying. I have. You wouldn't. I have owned 6 figure cars. They suck in traffic, and you just worry about death, instead of your bank account.

INTROSPECTION: I mean, of course. All things considered you'd prefer to be well off. Having money solves problems that not having money creates, but it comes with new ones.

ASPIRATION: Yes, and having money creates problems that not having money doesn't have. I lived 4 years of my life in a rest stop sleeping in the back of my car. And now I own... everything. And most days, I miss the sunrise at the rest stop. 

INTROSPECTION: I sympathize with looking back to the sunrise. But I also think you may be missing the sunrise you've given to other people.

ASPIRATION: Oh, no, I don't miss that. That's why I'm here. I just want them to have it all. And I'm wearing myself out. Which I guess makes me feel good about myself. 

Story time will be different today.

This will be about me. This will be an exercise in vulnerability, and it's going to be hard for me. But I have a reason beyond self aggrandisement. I was born in an unhappy household. My mother was delusional and narcissistic, my father was impotent and full of rage. We were part of a commune. But we didn't all live in the same place. My mother was a "Merry Prankster", so we spent most of our time with Ken Kesey and his gang. I spent a lot of time with famous people, but I didn't know they were famous; Jerry Garcia, Jack Nicholson, Michael Douglas. And that, when it's firing on all cylinders, is still my definition of joy: a lot of very smart and accomplished people in a big field with music and dogs and kids.

But there was a dark side. Beatings, at first, were infrequent. But the neglect was... intense. My mother once, when I was 3, left me in a car in long term parking for 3 days while she flew to San Francisco. Her ability to discern who was safe, and whole, and who was dangerous was broken. Eventually, she decided that being a mom at all wasn't her priority. Her solution to this was to bring in homeless people to watch me and my sister. She thought she was doing good. I don't blame her. But these people would move into an outbuilding on the property and they would be tasked with watching us. It was… very bad. 

When I was five, a particularly malignant person, Tony, was living with us. Tony was schizophrenic And a pedophile. My mother would be gone for weeks at a time. And it got very dark. He would, in the middle of the night, cut power to the entire house, and begin screaming incoherently in a made up language. Sometimes he would grab a long knife and swing it wildly. I still have a scar on the back of my head. And that. A man screaming Mhang Ghaaaang! While a knife flashed in the hallway outside of my bedroom.… It broke something inside of me. At some point I just, went away. There was sexual abuse, but I can't remember it clearly. 

Finally, one day Tony put me in an agricultural cistern and shut the lid. It was full to the top of very cold water. And I remembered thinking as I gulped water… Thank you. Thank you for the quiet. Thank you that it's over. He pulled me out, and from that point… Well, there just wasn't much left of me. I became rabid. Violent. I was uncontrollable. I would protect my 2 year old sister with a knife from anyone. My mother, visitors. And so it went. Eventually I got to be to much, and my mother sent me to live with my father. The days of the field and the sunlight and the accomplished people had passed. And I did the best I could.

I was hated in my school, I was bullied. I couldn't make that basic, human trust connection. When I grew into a young man, I became obsessed with power. I told myself that it had been bad, but not that bad. I took up kick boxing, and car racing, and womanizing. I got good at these things. I would RAGE at people for slight infractions. Especially if they had scared someone weaker than they were. One night some frat guy was cat calling a woman in the dark, she was very scared. And I went to jail for what happened next.

And that, I guess, was when it was darkest. No friends, no family, only rage and revenge and ferocity. And self pity so strong it could break a steel beam. Why was this my life? I hadn't done anything wrong. I decided that suicide was the best option. I went to a field, my favorite place. In the warm sun. I found a stone grotto, and set about to the work of killing myself. And just then, I felt something indescribable. There was no one there, it wasn't a god. I felt a sense of what it would be like to have a community.

I don't know how. But, I just felt what it might be like to trust people, and have them trust me. To do good for them, and be able to receive good from them. All alone, in that field. I felt human. And that's when I saw that while what had happened to me was extreme, that the entire world was suffering. From a lack of community. From a lack of the simple act of telling a person that you loved them, or that you were scared, or showing excitement. I saw that we were all pouring concrete over ourselves to keep the world out. But really, it just kept us from expressing, from being seen.

MERFOTIA: Alright that's it. LOL nice story, bro 9/11, would totally bomb twin towers again. You have clearly inherited some of your mom's narcissism, creating this group as a personal therapy group for yourself and dumping shit on us. You're a loser man, grow up, bite down on those 'feelings' and learn to deal with all that by yourself. Jeezus what a fucking shrink show. You and all these loonies who patiently hear you lame crap, biggest cult of all time. I was thinking that the cultiness and mental health discussions were all troll but you sound real now, this just went from fun to lame.

ASPIRATION: I'm sorry you feel that way.

*People erupt, cutting off Aspiration.*

ASPIRATION: Guys.

*More anger is brought forward.*

ASPIRATION: It's OK.

*The clamor mounts.*

ASPIRATION: Don't react, it's a ploy. Did you not see the _FEAR_? Elastic fear. He's terrified. Just breathe. You've got to be able to hold a rhino.

*The heat starts to dwindle.*

ASPIRATION: Look, guys, see it. I couldn't have hired him to come in at a better time to illustrate what I'm saying. Look what happens, when things get real. Look at the absolute fear. We've lost the context. Instead of being angry at him, see exactly what happens when vulnerability shows up? Look at the imagery he used. 9/11, thousands dead. This is where his mind went when he saw vulnerability.

MERFOTIA: Gloat, greatest losers of all time.

ASPIRATION: The CULTURE THAT TELLS US THAT VULNERABILITY IS DEATH is disgusting. Not Merfotia.

MERFOTIA: I wanna see that facade fade man. Stop acting.

ASPIRATION: Show him the same emotional vibe you got from me, because that fear is the same. Stop, please, reacting in fear to him. Hold it. Feel it burn. Don't react.

*People start to mock Merfotia, the anger returns, people ask to ban him.*

ASPIRATION: You're feeling fear and a need to circle with wagons around the in-group. Don't do it, feel it. Feel the fear.

MERFOTIA: Ban me already, motherfuckers, end this nightmare show.

ASPIRATION: I'm sorry Merfotia, you're welcome here. I see you, you're OK. And I'm really sorry for what happened to you.

MERFOTIA: Lol, nothing happened to me, I had a fine life. I was simply asking you to get a shrink instead of using this chat as a therapy.

ASPIRATION: No, man. You got very scared. And that's OK. 

*More mockery crops up.*

ASPIRATION: This person doesn't NEED DERISION! Stop. Be kind. You don't act like that unless you're really hurt. Stop hurting the hurt people. 

LOGIC: So In seeing vulnerability, I see something of myself, and that is scary. A vulnerability in myself= fear.

ASPIRATION: Yes.

MERFOTIA: Sounds like someone watched a few too many Jesus movies and is now acting like him.

ASPIRATION: You are welcome to continue screaming into the wind, or hating me, you're welcome to leave, or stay.

*Someone asks if anyone is taking notes.*

ANGER: Yes, I am. I was going to ask Aspiration if he is OK with that, this time, before I commit this to the archive.

ASPIRATION: Of course it's OK. My pain isn't something that should be hidden. It's not a secret to be kept.

*Chaos erupts again, and Merfotia is muted, but not by Aspiration.*

ASPIRATION: Guys, we need to reign it back in so we can not just have this screaming fear and id be the end of the story. breathe. Come back. breathe again. Keep breathing, and we'll keep going. Ride the wave, you followed it up, follow it back down. Better? Cool.

ELIAUO: I really respect that you can handle stuff like that so well fO but there's a risk with other people not being able to do that. Therefore it's dangerous to allow similar behaviour, it's for the best to punish it.

ASPIRATION: You're right, that if someone reacted in fear to someone other than me in here, I would be very angry. But, this is the point. We're all so scared. He challenged me, he challenged my ideas. It felt so fucking bad. It _burned_. I felt it, I didn't become it. I saw which part of me was experiencing it, and I took the next step. He is a very lonely person and he deserves care. Just like all of us.

THOS: Aspiration, what if this person was to say this to you face to face?

ASPIRATION: I would turn bright red. My fists would clench. I'm a human. Then, I'd breathe before I became a rhino. 

THALIAN: If I may, I think what happened is in a way he challenged all of us. We all have something to be vulnerable about and we were all happy that you felt that you could reveal yourself.

ASPIRATION: Yes, exactly. Which is why it felt like someone was pouring FIRE into you. And why everyone reflexively hit back. 

THALIAN: I suppose our reaction was in a way to assure you that you could continue because if you felt you had to stop we all would have to stop.

ASPIRATION: I won't stop. Because I'm trying to make a point. The point is not that if you are vulnerable and present and own your shit the world will love you. It will become hostile, in a lot of ways. But it will ALSO show you more communion, and comfort. And you've got to build yourself up to hold it. Or some shit like that.

This concludes story time. I'd like to thank Merfotia for illustrating my point more clearly than I ever could have.

There is a lot of density in what happened today. Feel it, look at it, look at the emotional wave inside of yourself.

INTROSPECTION: Your story will provoke extreme reactions. And you have already seen it, and knew that, but still shared it. I appreciate that.

ASPIRATION: What's really going to fuck with your head later is... Is that why I posted it?

INTROSPECTION: I think intent there is interesting. Especially since you knew that outcome was likely. And showed how you deal with it in a positive way. Again, just speculating but, was interesting.

ASPIRATION: That was the point. To show what culture does. How rhinoceroses stampede when you go against the grain and show up. And how to hold it.

When I told you the story will often be told backward, and that cause and effect are often reversed, I was expecting you to see it in my story telling style. Today was a decent example. If a little on the nose.

*Final leaves for a meeting, but Merfotia returns from his mute.*

MERFOTIA: Ahhhh my mute's lifted. I'm back, motherfuckers. How's your blind worshipping coming along? 

*People attempt to bridge the gap.*

MERFOTIA: I just want to watch the world burn man, I love it. I'm one of those people who'd start looting when a protest breaks out in the city. 

HEART: Why are you proud of that?

MERFOTIA: I'm not. It's what I am, and I'm happy with it. I don't whine and use a group for my personal therapy. More than half of you would kill if pushed well enough, stop pretending to be saints. All this 'safe space' nonsense.

LOGIC: I have. I was in 2 different wars before I was old enough to drink.

MERFOTIA: Great, that's humanity, most of life too. Let's not pretend to be something we aren't. 

*Merfotia then becomes quiet, and the group moves on to discuss the lesson. Later that day, however, Merfotia made a return, of sorts.*

ASPIRATION: Merfotia sent me a hard apology today. If he's being honest, and I have no doubt he is, that was a huge amount of insight and character. I'm not going to say what he said, because it's personal. 

SAGA: He actually asked me to share it:

"Saga, I'm muted on the Corporation channel, but may I request you to please pass on the following message community? 

Dear Corp. community, I would like to apologize for my anti-social behaviour earlier today. SOmething about Aspirations story made me feel weak and incapable. As a result, I resorted to aggression and bullying as a defense mechanism, And to not feel guilty about the aggression and bullying, I tried to use satire as a cope and that was a shameful display as well. Overall, a bad day. I hope you can find it in your hearts to forgive me. I sent Aspiration a similar message, asking for his forgiveness. Wishing you all the best, always."

ASPIRATION: That's... fucking awesome.

SAGA: Then we discussed in open channel, and everyone was warm.

ASPIRATION: Good. Fucking awesome. So... what's the lesson? Not about him or his character? What happened in here?

FAHIN: You showed vulnerability and it triggered an emotional response.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, it really did. Then what happened?

INTROSPECTION: Pushback. Aver the top, you requested otherwise.

ASPIRATION: Yeah.

LOGIC: The community hit back.

ASPIRATION: Yes. The community became rhino like. Jumped in, reactively, and read his angry words well before you investigated why he might be saying it. He became part of the out-group, and curiosity about his humanity was lost.

INTROSPECTION: Not entirely though. I mean no offense here. I wouldn't object to people having a hard disagreement, even with you. Just sometimes the way it is carried out is needlessly harsh. Though I understand I can't anticipate his perspective.

ASPIRATION: Oh, it was insanely harsh. But isn't that information also? So, take a step. And we'll not focus on one person.

SAGA: As soon as I read that I knew it was a defense mechanism because I see that in myself.

ASPIRATION: Bang. Exactly. And if the defense mechanism is over the top and overwhelming? What must it be covering? 

APEIRON: You judge yourself on your intentions, and others on there actions; That's not fair.

ASPIRATION: Apeiron with the home fucking run.

ANGER: It’s covering something real.

FAHIN: Something big.

ASPIRATION: Yeah. Something big. But probably not something great. Entertainment trolls don't have an emotional resonance behind it. This did. Alright. How did YOU feel when I was writing out that story?

*People share that they felt small, sad, angry, etc.*

ASPIRATION: Alright, and if someone is unearthing something similar that happened to you when you thought this was all going to be a larp? And you round the corner and BAM - there is your shit. 

ANGER: You feel attacked, in that scenario.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, you've spent your entire life burying that. Feels like death. Feels like it's happening again. This is why the words _trigger warning_ are used. It sounds ridiculous, but for people who need it, those words are powerful guides. We can react with anger, or fear, or panic, or numbness. Or... as I've recently pointed out... with humor. Elastic shitposting.

The best thing you can do, the most human thing you can do, is not react at all. To take it in, to be distant enough from your various coping strategies to listen to what they have to say. I didn't react to him. I took it in, and then I _acted_. A reaction would have been to respond to what he said. An action would be to insert some awareness into the mix, and _DECIDE_ how to move next. 

Reaction = no reflection, a bullet ricochet. To act is to catch the bullet, and throw it in an _intended direction_. 

Yes, it takes a lot more effort. I'm a person, yeah? And I'm here telling this really hard story. And bam, this dude comes in out of nowhere and insults me and tells me my pain is garbage and not worth hurting over. How do you think I felt? Scared? Angry? Belittled? Embarrassed?

LOGIC: All of the above.

ASPIRATION: All of the above. And I'm so fucking afraid of those things, that I keep it from making me vulnerable. So... what's the hack? Yes, I saw it coming.  And that did nothing, at all, to ease the pain. It _burned_. 

Well, I took a step back. I felt the pain, but because I'm aware of my own internal space I read the queues that my body provided me like hieroglyphics. I can do that because I spend a lot of time in a stepped back position. So when my cheeks flushed and my heart rate spiked. I listened. 

I said, hello, anger. You're telling me someone is at the gates. Hello, fear, you're telling me something could hurt me. So, my alarm bells are ringing. And I step back, and instead of reacting with one of my lenses, I involved my social intelligence and my empathy. Does anyone remember what the first thing I said to him was?

ABSTRACTION: I am sorry you feel that way.

ASPIRATION: Yes. Because I am. I'm fucking _sorry_ that that guy got ambushed. I'm _so sorry_ he can identify with what I'm saying to the point that he lashed out. 

INTUITION): I blame myself for that. I shouldn’t have replied.

ASPIRATION: If you guys had already had access to this information, you wouldn't be here. You'd go, yeah, duh, kindergarten shit. And moved on. How can you blame yourself for reacting perfectly in line with everything you've been taught? That just makes you a good student. There is no blame. 

INTROSPECTION: You studied the wrong things.

ASPIRATION: You were _trained_. It's not like anyone set out to learn this shit. Mother culture _trained_ you.

DELOIA: Saying "I'm sorry you feel that way" to someone who is lashing out is a non-apology apology. It does not admit there was anything wrong.

ASPIRATION: It was not an apology for what I had done. I hadn't done anything wrong, why would I apologize for it. What I was sorry about was the pain he was obviously feeling. It wasn't an apology. It was an expression of empathy. I had tears in my eyes _for him_ when I typed that.

So. To tie it all together. These lessons have been nam-shubs, yeah? And a lot of them biblical in nature, to show you that the bible is actually a collection of really wise nam-shubs, cures for rhinoceroses. What was the biblical nam-shub I was trying to demonstrate today?

THALIAN: Turn the other cheek.

ASPIRATION: Ding. And in my ridiculous way, to try to get you to listen. Love your neighbor as yourself. If you judge yourself by your _intentions_ you'd best fucking figure out how to love other people for theirs. Turn the other cheek implies that you know all about being presence. That you are in full control of your various aspects. 

All of these lessons seem trite and stupid. Unless you view them with an eye toward the underlying skill required. Which you have to get by studying the other nam-shubs of the time. Some biblical, some not. Like, sure, turn the other cheek. But how? Everyone sees it and says "must be because he was divine". No, dudes, it's because dude had _mastered_ presence.

If you saw what some of these ancient books actually contained. The INSANE density they have in them. They make everything I've said so far look like kiddy pool stuff. Once we're done with elementary school, you guys will be able to go out and read the real masters. And I'll be a fond memory of a kindergarten teacher. I'm just here to give you the context.

ANGER: I still love keeping in touch with my favourite teachers.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, I hope you all do. But like, I've got some shit to do also. And the person you're keeping in touch with will hopefully be more than me.