title
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, ABSTRACTION, LOGIC, IMPULSIVITY, ORUS, MYALO

ABSTRACTION: "And so when the ego is about to be unmasked, it immediately identifies with the higher Self. It goes up a level, because the religious game is simply a refined and highbrow version of the ordinary game." Where does it end?

ASPIRATION: It doesn't. Because the point is to realize that you're not letting go to get to a point, you're letting go to get better at letting go. It is only in that single, beautiful, terrifying act, that you can be free of identification. If you're letting go to get to a point. You're not dancing, your trudging. The point is, I guess, to be more or less in a state of free-fall. Until you see that free fall is in fact weightlessness.

ABSTRACTION: What is the Atman?

ASPIRATION: The Atman is that which remains when you stop trying to be anything other than that which is. This is why I can't just tell you where to go. I'm not trying to tell you to get to a point on the map, I'm trying to tell you a manner of travelling. And, paradoxically, a manner of finally travelling nowhere.

ABSTRACTION: The real self, the thing that identifies with God.

ASPIRATION: The real self doesn't identify. It simply is. Identification is in a real sense, the problem. It's a handhold on the cliff face, something you reflexively reach for when you're scared.

ABSTRACTION: We are trying to become the thing that is.

ASPIRATION: "Become" is troublesome. It indicates a state that you are not already in. If you'll permit me a ridiculous metaphor. We are trying to unpeel every layer of the onion, until the onion realizes that it is only layers. There is nothing else. Once you've peeled an onion totally, all you're left with is everything. So our goal is not to realize the Atman, that which already is cannot be realized. Our goal is to get very good at peeling.

ABSTRACTION: It's the idea that nothing is everything.

ASPIRATION: Exactly. The dance is the thing. Not where you end up at the end.

ABSTRACTION: If we "Become" nothing, then we are everything.

ASPIRATION: When you die, your "ripple" collapses, in every possible way. Temporally, physically, energetically, socially. The goal here is to see that before it happens. And to realize you probably shouldn't be scared, because you are the pond.

ABSTRACTION: And that is why it will feel like death, because it is, in a way. You are not the wave, you are water.

ASPIRATION: Yes, the feeling of "I'm going to die" is our friend in this case. It indicates progress, and it self verifies that something powerful is occurring. The world is absolutely replete with this phenomenon. Stories of people, nearly gone, pushed to their absolute breaking point, and then being "saved" by "grace". AA calls this a spiritual awakening. But it is just the story. Jesus during the temptation, Buddha under the tree.

ABSTRACTION: Aspiration, do you fear death? Bodily death?

ASPIRATION: No. I have some fear of pain, but I recognize that as folly. Fear of pain is always worse than the pain itself.

ABSTRACTION: Do you fear the change of death?

ASPIRATION: No. About 4 years ago, I was, to put it inelegantly, set on fire. A large fraction of my body was covered in 3rd degree burns. A battery malfunction caused the problem. And as I was laying there in exquisite pain, the most ridiculous thought occurred to me: "At least I'm not afraid". The pain was just pain, wholly manageable. It was the fear that I was afraid of. If you think it would help illustrate my point, I can post some fairly gruesome photos. But with that realization, I found that I wanted to explore this phenomenon of pain more. I was clear, I wasn't scared. The burn was bad but I didn't believe it would kill me.

So I refused pain medication, so that I could learn the lesson more deeply.
And holy shit did it hurt. Having a burn debrided and cleaned without the help of opiates was a pretty intense high. But in that moment I didn't have any fear, and I was worried that the medication would make me foggy and fearful.

*They discuss sharing the images.*

ABSTRACTION: Having a burn debrided without pain blockers. You are quite brave.

ASPIRATION: No, the opposite. I was afraid that the pain blockers would cause more fear. I was willing to trade pain for fear.

*Aspiration shares a few images, of the burn, of the hole the plasma jet left in his leg.*

Anyway, the point is, it was really quite painful. But in the end, it was fear of fear, not fear of pain that got to me; to the extent that I had that wound scrubbed with a belt in my mouth. I think it was probably the most painful thing I've ever experienced, but the clarity about pain vs. fear was powerful. And even in that pain the message was clear as I was writhing in the hospital bed with a Scotch-Brite pad being applied vigorously.

*Warning to reader: Please do not vent lithium batteries into your leg to understand pain.*

ABSTRACTION: even with all that pain, the fear was still stronger. That's a powerful message. Is fear the thing holding us back the most?

ASPIRATION: Fear is the only thing that impedes us on this trip. We've seen that illustrated powerfully already. People having intensely powerful reactions, based in fear. I'm not going to try to make the fear go away, that would be foolish. What I'm trying to do is paint a picture so that you are afraid and do it anyway.

ABSTRACTION: Like anything that scares you, after you do it you will look back and be so glad you did. I feel like all previous fears will pale in comparison to the fear we will feel during this.

ASPIRATION: Fear, by definition, is the only thing that stands between the status quo and growth, every time. You'll feel like you're dying. It's intense. And brief. And you've just gotta do it anyway. That's the moment. Right then, when the fear rises so fast and so powerfully you feel like you have to run. Then. Let go. I wish I could just send it to you. But it's the journey that yields to fruits. You've gotta do it yourself.

ABSTRACTION: The dance is what is important.

ASPIRATION: Yeah. It's not the goal, it's the dance. _Here's the thing, a few people here are already at the point where it's time to stop reading and just go do it._ But they'll keep studying, putting it off, reading, thinking. Forever. I think you felt it getting close a few days ago, Abstraction.

ABSTRACTION: Yes, and it was terrifying. Even though I conceptually understood I had no reason to be.

ASPIRATION: Yeah. That was your offramp. Now you know what it looks like. It's not a rational fear. You can't study and make it less. The fear is the thing, that's the goal. Get there, go through it.

ABSTRACTION: I am afraid that I am not ready, I have fear of the fear.

ASPIRATION: You'll never be ready. You'll never not fear the fear.

ABSTRACTION: Just thinking about it makes my palms sweat.

ASPIRATION: Yeah. I know. You'll be OK.

*Later, Logic comes to the chat with a revelation that causes a stampede.*

LOGIC: Aspiration asked me to make 2 announcements. Firstly, I found out who he is. I can confirm every bit of his story. He is being 100% truthful with us. At his request I will not release his name.

Second:

**FMCIW 34.15 11.21-85.19 NOMINAL OCT 2020**
Decrypted- 20201161507@epsilon.com
Epsilon theory- https://www.epsilontheory.com/mailbag-lucifers-hammer-edition/
Missionary- a person capable of operating as a “queen ant” (ex. Trumps Twitter, JPow, etc.) insert old man yells at clouds, vials for ants.

**FORUM MONITOR REPORTS 47.51% INCREASE IN KEY WORD CORRELATION GROUP FE10 INDICATING ENDEMIC HOUSING SUPPLY PRESSURE INCREASING AT 3.51% WEEKLY**
Referencing a game theory subtype, likely using a program to scan key trigger words from missionary transcripts, forums, news, etc.

**FORUM MONITOR REPORTS 52.11% INCREASE IN KEY WORD CORRELATION GROUP E611 INDICATING CONSUMER SPENDING REDUCTION TO SERVICE SUBJECT MORTGAGE**
Same as above.

**FORUM MONITOR REPORTS 55.01% INCREASE IN KEY WORD CORRELATION GROUP EEFF INDICATING SUBJECT CONSUMERS SELLING PERSONAL EFFECTS TO SERVICE SUBJECT MORTGAGE**
EEFF referencing symmetric/asymmetric game theory- REIT plays.

**INCURSION COMPLETE
HARDENED TRANSMITTERS NOW LIMITED TO CCITT V.32 PROTOCOL ON 4.77 MHZ HALF DUPLEX**
^^^what I used to decode the FMCIW ^^
I don’t remember what happened, I was struggling to stay awake, something involving CRC32 to dehash?

**YIELD CURVE ON FAANG HAS REACHED END OF ZIPHIAN PROGRESSION, CORRECTION LIKELY IN ~30 DAYS.**
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zipf's_law

Zipf's law (/zɪf/, not /tsɪpf/ as in German) is an empirical law formulated using mathematical statistics that refers to the fact that many types of data studied in the physical and social sciences can be approximated with a Zipfian distribution, one of a family of related discrete power law probability distributions. Zipf distribution is related to the zeta distribution, but is not identical.

There’s more of course but epsilon’s theory can be used in multiple ways- from stocks, markets, social disinformation, seeing through “messiahs”, statistics, etc.

I agree with how epsilon’s theory can be implemented, I can see how it works.

*The following is utter chaos the likes of which the server had hardly ever seen. Thalian did his best to truncate the responses, as you will find below.*

LOGIC: I believe there will be a economic reset, the markets are fragile. Central banks, man.

Hyper inflation, tech bubble, loans, debt, mortgages, COVID, civil unrest. My SOFR/LIBOR post was a tiny gear in the watch. People looked at it, misunderstood what I was saying (my fault), watched the little gear spin the second hand and moved on. I can’t put into words all of the moving pieces.

Ben hunt talks a lot about filters, but this message is too long already. Sorry ran over text limit.

*Insert yelling and screaming... New people don't know what is going on, Prylis almost crashes his car, I sat there at work watching all this craziness and had a mild panic attack. Great day.*

IMPULSIVITY: He said that it is still half the the story.

ASPIRATION: It is half of the final incursion. Guys, this is important, and ultimately doesn't matter. I'm attempting to show you what can be achieved, these puzzles are to give me credibility. Breathe. Don't think, don't rhino.

These puzzles are to show you that I have the ability to see patterns regarding social and economic phenomena. They exist to give me credibility. That's all. They are important for that reason alone. The resolution of the puzzle will just give you another incursion, minimally actionable. The reason I put them there was so that you would give me your time, so I could share a story with you. That is the total of their utility. So, breathe, it doesn't matter if they go over your head, they aren't the point. They won't save anything, the won't stop anything, I don't offer a solution to your problems, I'm just a guy, telling a story that I think you'll like. And in the end, the story may be actionable for you, personally.

That's all. This isn't an apocalyptic story. I know that would be sexy, but it isn't.

ORUS: I'm familiar with it being "The Age of Aquarius".

ASPIRATION: It's just a story about the transition to the water bearer. Aha, well *done* Orus! So, everyone hear me? I'm not supernatural, I'm not predicting end times, I'm not starting a cult, I'm not a guru, I'm not enlightened. I just found a cool thing that lets me see a little differently, and I'm trying to share it. Also, now that Logic has confirmed my identity, knowing more about me, other than I've been telling you the truth, is counter productive. Cult of personality is damaging to my ego and to your sense of self competence.

MYALO: With this reset, it won't quite matter what we did in the stock market beforehand.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, it's a way to make you comfortable in a time that will be uncomfortable for egos, 2020 being a great example.



