# 20201106
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, COMMUNITY, ANIATIO, HEART, THALIAN, FAHIN, IMPULSIVITY, ORAMIO

COMMUNITY: This channel oscillates between deep philosophy and complete and utter shitposting.

ASPIRATION: You're fine.

COMMUNITY: I don't think it could be made more enjoyable if you tried.

ANIATIO: Is it story time?

ASPIRATION: Yeah, if you guys would shut up. Nerds. Because you let me take time off, I've made another puzzle for you. But, first: The Lilies of the field. What is that story about? Well, I guess parable, or short story. Go, guesses.

*General chaos, with a plethora of answers both serious and not*

HEART: Premeditated contentment?

ANIATIO: From the bible you mean?

ASPIRATION: Alright. Lets get some common context going. The Bible is an allegorical text about astrology, food safety, and psychology. If you want to read it as the word of the lord, that's fine. But I'll probably offend you. Ultimately it's utility exists if you understand the utility of all nam-shubs 

The bible is a collection of them. Lots of them are super memeable.  And, so I don't shoot my own face off, I'll avoid my thoughts about Jesus as the sun god, and we'll move forward. Everyone with me?

COMMUNITY: Absolutely.

ASPIRATION: I've lost 3/4s of the room, haven't I?

THALIAN: I'm with ya.

ASPIRATION: Maybe we're not ready yet.

*More chaos ensues.*

THALIAN: Biblical stories and mythology are my thing. Joseph Campbell is one of my favorite authors.

ASPIRATION: Good.

FAHIN: Yes, the Bible is like a instruction manual on how to human.

ASPIRATION: Lilies, of the field. And yes, like all nam-shubs, Fahin.

COMMUNITY: "Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they do not toil nor spin." Lilies just are, they're continually in a state of spontaneous unpremeditated action.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, exactly, Community.

IMPULSIVITY: Do the changing channel names have any relevance?

*Impulsivity is referring to the ever changing names of the channel, it currently reads as 'Halsha va Karvak'.*

ASPIRATION: No, just people being infuriating. Halsha va Karvak will be part of a substitution cipher. But not a letter by letter cipher.

THALIAN: Son of a bitch.

ASPIRATION: Ok, so what state of psychological distress is Lilies of the field trying to cure? It's a nam-shub, it's medicine. You go to the priest, you say I am _ and he gives you this nam-shub to fix the problem. 

Wait. Before I go any further, we all clear on nam-shubs? The clue is in the passage, The thing that it fixes.

COMMUNITY: Nam-Shubs, mes, Sumerians' attempt to discretize and name a bunch of ideas which irreversibly amplified them into memes.

ASPIRATION: Precisely.

THALIAN: _25 Therefore I say unto you, Be not anxious for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than the food, and the body than the raiment? 26 Behold the birds of the heaven, that they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; and your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are not ye of much more value than they? 27 And which of you by being anxious can add one cubit unto the measure of his life? 28 And why are ye anxious concerning raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin: 29 yet I say unto you, that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. 30 But if God doth so clothe the grass of the field, which to-day is, and to-morrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? 31 Be not therefore anxious, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed? 32 For after all these things do the Gentiles seek; for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. 33 But seek ye first his kingdom, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. 34 Be not therefore anxious for the morrow: for the morrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof._

ASPIRATION: Ok, what is the psychological state called out in this passage? We're grabbing the bible because it's a universal, culturally relevant collection of nam-shubs; not because I'm gonna sell you god. 

THALIAN: It is anxiety about status.

ASPIRATION: Simplify the psychological state.

THALIAN: Fear.

FAHIN: Guilt.

ASPIRATION: I mean, specifically, the word is right there. One word.

COMMUNITY: It's anxiety.

ASPIRATION: Yes. The lilies of the field is a nam-shub for curing anxiety. And it works, too, but the problem is we've lost the context underneath it, so it's not immediately curative anymore. But back in the day, man. You'd have anxiety and you'd go to get your meme medicine and the priest would give you this and it would clear that shit right up.

This one is important. It's a retelling of the manna from heaven story. The both say the same thing. Yo, asshole. Don't save manna. So what is manna? I mean, besides bread.

COMMUNITY: "Take no thought for the morrow." Manna is thought.

ASPIRATION: DING. PLANNING, JUDGING, HOPING, EXPECTING. _THINKING_.

THALIAN: So when you tell us to not think, that is the modern equivalent.

ASPIRATION: When I tell you to not think I am telling you to stop time, be present, and feel.

COMMUNITY: That's the underlying idea of these Biblical memetic vehicles.

ASPIRATION: Yes, told over and over again. A counter meme to undo original sin. What is the original sin?

IMPULSIVITY: Other than the biblical meaning?

ASPIRATION: How did we start this wacky horseshit? I mean exactly the biblical meaning. We've been through this lesson. Guys, don't make me tell the story twice. 

*A series of replies follow, but none hold the message Aspiration is looking for.*

ASPIRATION: Can someone summerize the lesson from the other day?

ANIATIO: Judgement creates the dualism of good and bad, it defines the two sides.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, and in essence, it was the first thing we did to damn ourselves, right?  It allowed everything else to follow.

COMMUNITY: Have we connected judgement to "I"/the ego yet?

ASPIRATION: Yes, sort of. But I haven't expounded on it yet.

THALIAN: The philosophy of original sin is that we inherit that isn't it.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, which is weird, right?

COMMUNITY: Yeah, we're reflections of others aren't we? That was your first lesson I think.

ASPIRATION: And then this sun god shows up halfway thought the story and says. You all have become rhinoceroses, there is no way to fix you, so just feel bad about it and do some stuff and we good. But, we're getting off point.

Lilies. They give no thought to tomorrow. Essentially the story is asking you to return to a state that we used to have a lot more context with than we do now. But now you would call that state "meditation".

So, 2000 years ago, we were all a lot more present. It's hard not to be present in the woods with not a lot to do. So anxiety is vanishingly rare, because anxiety is the antithesis of presence. Now there is an anxiety epidemic, which is another way to say thinking epidemic.

THALIAN: I have a question.

ASPIRATION: Shoot!

THALIAN: Anxiety was rare, but people did all kinds of things in order to prevent bad things from happening; bad stuff like earthquakes, floods, and plagues. We call that superstition now, but it is a form of anxiety no? Modern anxiety is there as a defense to prevent bad things from happening too. But we use the only thing we have left, which is our brain to project the future, and think too much.

ASPIRATION: Sure! Foresight is an evolutionary advantage. Logicking out where a deer went by the warmth of its droppings and the erosion of it's footprints was fucking brilliant from an evolutionary perspective. But, Thalian, I would call that fear.

THALIAN: I suppose the ritual was not actually the expression of anxiety then it would have been the quelling of it?

ASPIRATION: Anxiety is a narrow form of fear that has to do with prediction. So, we're getting close to the answer. Why did I grab you folks from WSB? This will be a leap.

COMMUNITY: Because everyone on WSB is anxious about the future and is trying to use money to ward that off?

ASPIRATION: Yes, but very, very specifically.

*A slew of answers are offered.*

ASPIRATION: Because wall street bets has got this condition the worst, and it is among those most susceptible. Y'all have fear, so you go to the market, thinking that thinking might save you. You obsess, you follow patterns. All hoping that it will make your fear go away. But of course it can't because it is reinforcing the one thing that makes it worse. 

All I did was the opposite. I became present, and it looked like magic. But it's not, it's a form of being that has been all but obsoleted. 

THALIAN: But following patterns may as well be a basic instinct right? I mean the patterns you found in culture, literature, religion, myth, they help.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, of course, but as we talked about yesterday.  Harmless systems of temporary advantage can be overwritten and become pathological. 

Now, I don't know if you guys have noticed, but I think. A lot. 

THALIAN: Right especially since we are conditioned for it

ASPIRATION: Yes, you were born into it. As was your entire line of family for the last 2000 years. 

FAHIN: Here's the scary thing tho. To truly be present in the context that you're suggesting it, is to literally withdraw from culture. To choose a path that will alienate yourself from your friends family, etc. How the hell can someone in good mental health make that choice?

ASPIRATION: Is it? Am I withdrawn? 

FAHIN: Absolutely, to your first question.

ASPIRATION: I have about 30 close friends and family who would disagree with the idea that I am withdrawn. I run r/facepalm.

COMMUNITY: Well, in Buddhism (not an expert), there are people called Bodhisattvas who achieve enlightenment and then return to society for the purpose of helping others.

ASPIRATION: Enlightenment is an extreme example of what I'm talking about. This isn't a course on how to enlighten yourself. This is a course on how to return to your human self. I have experienced satori. I'm good enough at it that it happens frequently. It is indescribably wonderful. It is also not particularly useful.

So, we're off course again. The lilies are medicine for anxiety. But they take for granted a state that you have NO CONTEXT for whatsoever. They assume, because of a different cultural context, that you're going to know what it is. But it's like reading a bread recipe without flour. Same with the manna from heaven. Same with original sin.

But what they are saying to pre-bicameral breakdown minds is: Grab some presence apply liberally. Just, chill the fuck out. But chill out in a way that makes your mental state indistinguishable from a flower. And you don't have that. Because unless you've pursued some serious alone time in the woods, or studied under a decent guru, or were born in Tibet under the right circumstances, our world doesn't have a good name for that ingredient.

ORAMIO: The world around us isn't conducive to chilling like a flower. We're all in various states of excruciating pain, constantly, existence is suffering.

ASPIRATION: We are exactly because we are exactly. And now, full circle, to the dog chasing his own tail.

ASPIRATION: We know that we can chill like a flower because flowers still grow in the world, despite dank memes. The separation from that knowledge is the suffering. It is not because of it, it is it.

ORAMIO: And these flowers whither in die in darkness under the suffocating cruelty of nature.

ASPIRATION: A good number of the flowers in my life remain un-withered. But eventually, they do, of course die. But they aren't particularly worried about it.

FAHIN: This ties in nicely to the point I was trying to make the other night about this being a very difficult state for some, but easy for others

ASPIRATION: You already poses the state. Sure, there are various ways into it. Some people were raised by conscientious people. Some spent time meditating. Well, I guess what I'm saying is until you're centered enough to pick stock picks out of thin air, there is still some room. And beyond that, there are a million miles left to go.

I am not here to tell anyone they are broken. I am here to say there is a fire. If you're already out of the fire, you already see the fire, you know what to do with a fire. Then you'll have limited utility for anything I'm saying. Or, I guess put another way.

_If you're happy - I'm already obsolete._

Because either you're happy because you know yourself deeply and intuit your way though, or you're happy because you've completely transformed into a rhino. There may be other ways, but I don't really know them.

FAHIN: as humans we need the full spectrum of emotions, and to experience the bad in order to appreciate the good

ASPIRATION: Of course. I'm getting sidetracked defending someone else's thesis. That's a trap for me. Literally all I've done has found something that finally makes me happy. And I knew that if I just posted it it would get two views and then people would move on.

But if I made magic, if I led you on a story that would take real commitment and camaraderie and fun. Well, it would have a better chance of sticking.

***Homework!***

Does everyone here have a pair of earbuds? Like the soft kind? That block out internal sounds?

*People respond saying they do.*

ASPIRATION: Alright, go get some, put em in, and go sit in the quietest part of your house, with no light. Maybe like a closet. And just. _Listen_. If you have tinnitus, this will be easy. If not, it's a little harder, but you'll need to listen to the sound of your own ears really, really fucking hard.

And you'll notice that the sound starts to change. And if you're really lucky, you'll start to hear something that sounds like a crowd in a train station. And if you're really, really good at this, try to isolate one of the voices in the crowd, and hear what they have to say.

I won't set up expectations beyond that.

And for tonight, I can officially state that you will not go crazy doing this, and that you aren't stupid or in danger.

Just go sit and _listen_ to the sound of your ears. Earplugs, quiet space, darkness. Give yourself half an hour. Oh, and last thing.  If you're not good at sitting cross legged, put a pillow behind you and make sure you can't hit your head if you tip over backwards. It happens.

_Listen until you hear something. And if you're lucky, listen until you hear voices._

I'll see you guys a little later!