# RISK
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, THOS, ANGER, THALIAN, GRANDIOSITY, COMMUNITY, INTROSPECTION, ABSTRACTION, INTUITION, ACTION, ORAMIO, ORUS, PARAMIA

ASPIRATION: How did you feel, how did the last two days in here make you feel? And what was the point?

THOS: Thinking about my dad again. Oh well.

ANGER: Sorry to hear that, Thos. I was more than a little uncomfortable, I guess.

ASPIRATION: We're here for you, Thos.

THALIAN: I wasn't in the thick of the problems the past two days but I felt a little withdrawn.

GRANDIOSITY: Has anyone else here experienced some development of strange predictive abilities since they joined the subreddit?

*People agree that they have.*

ASPIRATION: I certainly hope so. If you've been doing your homework, espesically. So, why did I throw the channel into disarray the last two days? This is about discovering something you already have. Not developing a skill. Is anybody going to take a shot at the question?

THALIAN: Was it to show how fragile our collective agreements are?

COMMUNITY: To illustrate that none of us are invincible to rhinocerization?

ASPIRATION: Yes, but something also deeper.

INTROSPECTION: I think creating some disarray allows you to see if we would pull together as well, and employ what we've learned or discovered.

THALIAN: That we can recover from rhinocerization by observing ourselves outside the problem?

ASPIRATION: Yes, that too. But I think it was Abstraction who experienced it most intensely.

ABSTRACTION: Yeah it was not fun.

ASPIRATION: Abstraction, you want to share your experience? You felt it acutely. I think you're going to have the brightest flashlight. The grocery list, the voice chat, the talk about money. They all had something in common.

*The grocery list referring to Aspirations attempt to get #elastic-shitposting to seriously consider his grocery needs and shop for him mindfully. He bought everything suggesting, and then the group had to figure out how he might eat for the next week with our jokes of answers. They ultimately came up with a baked potato for dinner and gave up on the rest.*

ABSTRACTION: As we devolved into the rhinos, I took a step back and observed what was happening. I felt intense discomfort about the situation, but it wasn't caused by the situation, it was caused by my observation of it. At least that's what it felt like.

ASPIRATION: Yes, you were knocked into observation, and what was your ego shouting?

ABSTRACTION: It was shouting to join in, or die

ASPIRATION: Deep breath. Exactly.

ABSTRACTION: If I didn't join the group. I would be lost and I would die.

ASPIRATION: All of you, what did those three things have in common? The grocery list, the voice chat, the talk about money? This whole thing is all of those. Those three things, specifically, had a common thread. They all had to do with one person in here. This is going to be a hard leap.

ABSTRACTION: They all have to do with you.

ASPIRATION: Yes. And what did all three have to do with me. What did they do?

ABSTRACTION: They created Rhinos.

ASPIRATION: Strong reactions each time. Yes, but we know that rhinos form. The question is why.

INTUITION: They all have to do with trust.

ASPIRATION: You're very close, Intuition. Here's a big hint. They all did something to your perspective of me. Something you are deeply uncomfortable with.

ABSTRACTION: They had to do with humanizing. They made you real.

ASPIRATION: DING. If I am supernatural, then maybe I can give you something. If I am a person, then you're going to have to do it for yourself

ABSTRACTION: When you talked about the potato, I felt deeply hurt for you, like you were family.

ASPIRATION: We probably lost people.

ABSTRACTION: One day, we will have to stop shouting and screaming about the door, leave the group, and go through it ourselves.

ASPIRATION: Ding. And then we'll be something different. Prediction is my thing, I'm good at it. And if you know that, and you know that I care about how you do with this. Then you're going to need to assume that I am always striving for a motive that you can't see just yet. I tried to show the perils of taking something at face value with the grocery list. That's why I posted it in elastic-shitposting. And Abstraction, that feels like a loss, doesn't it.

ABSTRACTION: Yes, a terrible loss. That is what got to me more than anything.

ASPIRATION: Everybody felt it. And the reaction to things made sense.
People were terrified about a hundred dollar donation for a minecraft server, but they couldn't tell me why. This was why. It made me human to be talking about money. Deep down you don't trust humans because you are one. You all needed me to be something bigger than that. So when it was the charity instead, that was different because that was virtuous? Me being superhuman and directing money to charity reinforces the belief that I am better than.

ANGER: We can’t love others if we can’t love ourselves, and we can’t trust others if we can’t trust ourselves.

ASPIRATION: YES, ANGER. 

Here I am, giving out time and effort for free, and instead of expecting payment for that, I DIRECT THE MONEY TO CHARITY!?
That doubles down your belief that I am something bigger than.

You know, somewhere inside of you, that if I were in this for profit, a tip jar is not the best way to do that. The best way is to sell you the options I call in incursions. We're not talking about surface trust here, though. We're talking about my ability to give you what you want, that's what I put in jeopardy yesterday.

ACTION: Now that I think about it, I think that the joking around with the cult stuff is kind of a defense technique. We jokingly put Aspiration as a cult leader because we want him to be something special.

ASPIRATION: Ding. If I am something special, then I can save you. I needed to be, to get your attention. I still need to be, but less so now, to get you to do your homework. Once we're done. I'll just be a dude.

INTROSPECTION: Do many people here think they need saving?

ASPIRATION: It's an underlying belief in human psychology to think that there is something fundamentally wrong with us.

COMMUNITY: Right, if it's an underlying belief in human psychology that there's something wrong with us on a fundamental level, then everybody wants a saviour.

ASPIRATION: Yeah. Everybody wants saving. Nobody needs it. Ultimately, in this little experiment, we might get 15 people to recognize that. What I'm actually saying right now. The rest will get some benefits from a larger perspective. Put bluntly, I started this by showing you that I have something you want. The process of showing you that you already have it is going to be painful. Because that means I'm not a new, surrogate parent, and that loss is a lot to hold. So! When I humanized myself, we reorganized. A lot of people in here stepped very strongly into roles that they will keep and feed throughout.

*Aspiration called on those you have now read to be Logic, Humor, Intuition, Heart, Introspection, Anger, Impulsivity, Community, Abstraction, Action, and Grandiosity; these users had other names, before establishing themselves as the 12 lenses of intelligence. Final October himself was Aspiration. Before they knew their roles, however, they had to figure out who they might be. Some users found this task far easier than others, and some found an answer they had to learn to love.*

ASPIRATION: Those that I named, what roles did you take?

ABSTRACTION: That's a tricky question.

ASPIRATION: Yes, but only because you lack confidence in the answer you already know. Yes, you worked as a team. But like everything else, I'm asking a question with at least two levels of answer. To the people I tagged, specifically, you each took up a role as an aspect of the human consciousness. Something we've talked about at length. Remember, I was talking about interpersonal intelligence, introspective intelligence, logical intelligence, emotional intelligence. The others. Lenses. You each took up a lens.

ANGER: We each took a filter, but Abstraction was the observer?

ASPIRATION: We're all the observer. I did, at some point in the last two days, call each of you the aspect that you've embodied. Logic and Heart will have the easiest time of this.

ANGER: Yeah I’m struggling.

ASPIRATION: That's OK, do you want the answer?

ANGER: I think Heart was intrapersonal? Let me think a bit more, I guess. Logic is the logic center, according to Aspiration.

ASPIRATION: Yes, even though it's Introspection who has probably internally identified as that. Introspection Is another aspect.

*People toss around ideas as to who Heart is.*

ASPIRATION: Scarlet is the heart. Intuition, do you know what you are?

INTUITION: I’m trying to figure out, but not sure.

ANGER: Ah the intelligence chart I’m using off of Google is unhelpful haha.

ASPIRATION: Anger and Community are complimentary aspects, which I find hilarious because they know each other. Micro is macro. Intuition is the quietest, most reticent guide in here. Look, she hasn't even added guide to her name.

HEART: Her observations are always spot on though.

ASPIRATION: Yes. They are. But her aspect prevents her from assuming an ego forward role.

*People now try to figure out which lens Intuition is, finally, Paramia has an answer.* 

PARAMIA: Intuitive.

ASPIRATION: Ding. Anybody want to hazard a guess as to what I am?

ANGER: Are we going off Gardners intelligences?

ASPIRATION: No, I'm not really being fair, I haven't divulged all the lenses I'm personally aware of.Forget what I am to myself. What am I to the group?

ANGER: I'm working with an incomplete dataset.

ASPIRATION: Here, lets do this. I'll list them. There are 12 lenses that I'm personally aware of:

Logic
Humor
Intuition
Heart (translates loosely to love, but also sorrow) 
Introspection
Anger
Impulsivity
Community
Abstraction
Action
Aspiration
Grandiosity

*They then discovered a few more, figuring out Aspiration and Action.*

COMMUNITY: I suspect there might be a difference between the role I'd like to be and the one I actually am haha.

ASPIRATION: Yes, and it's only because you've been taught that your aspect is bad, instead of noble.

THALIAN: Are people only one of these? Or do they just manifest one of them the strongest when tested, like a fallback.

ASPIRATION: Oh, I don't know. They are what you've lead in here with. A personality has all of these. We tend to dwell in one to the detriment to the others. Then we call that "us" but we all have all. 

*People guess some more, but none more are uncovered.*

ASPIRATION: No more answers. Those who don't know right away, set it on the back burner and let intuition do her job. Both inside of you, and in the group.

ANGER: This is going to be gnawing at me.

ASPIRATION: Haha, how perfectly in line with your aspect.

ANGER: It makes me feel like I’m in trouble. DON'T SAY THAT.

ASPIRATION: Hahahaha. Your aspect is very, very noble. But no more answers.
set it down. Let it come. When fear finally simmers down you'll see it. And I am for the purposes of this group, aspiration. "The sky is the limit, maybe there's some magic in there, maybe gods are real, maybe I'll end up being the benevolent king of the universe!" Aspiration is a silly, silly aspect, and absolutely vital in all of us. Just like all the other ones. There is a 13th, the neutral observer. When that happens we'll need someone to step into aspiration.

*A warning, from Oramio.* 

ORAMIO: In case anyone was wondering, this is a cult of ignorance.

GRANDIOSITY: How so? What's your opinion?

ORAMIO: I have no opinions, only beliefs.

GRANDIOSITY: What do you believe?

ORAMIO: I believe this is a cult of ignorance. Aspiration claims to be a big game hunter, poaching rhinos. But in reality, he is the pied piper. He's Hansel, leaving breadcrumbs which you rhinos eagerly devour. A rhino with a codec is still a rhino.

ASPIRATION: A worthy and serious thought to consider. Where do you believe I'm leading them, Oramio?

ORAMIO: Neverland.

ASPIRATION: The claim is bold, but is it simply suspicion? Certainty? Or is it. "I have a belief based on my lived experience that this is not going where you say this is going, be cautious?"

ORAMIO: It's a claim I make out of ignorance - think of it as an incursion.

ASPIRATION: I don't believe for a moment that you're making a claim based on ignorance. You exude adroit competence.

ORAMIO: It's a trope, there is a cost to giving up one's memes. The moral of the story.

ASPIRATION: There absolutely is, if I'm parsing that correctly. My assertion is that the benefit outweighs the cost.

ORAMIO: Not everyone can handle it. And some may be better off a motley fool.

ASPIRATION: That, I agree with. And I hope it's been made clear that I'm doing my best to filter those with the way that I'm doing this. But he's talking about something deeper. Giving up your own personal memes. The shorthand of your personality.

ORAMIO: What makes a person whole? What is your essence? And what do you hope to find in Aspiration? My hypothesis - ignorance.

THALIAN: Interesting are you saying we want to humanize him further by finding his ignorance?

ORAMIO: Your own. But what if you find nothing? What if, at the end, you look down into the abyss and find tickers, and words, and codes?

ASPIRATION: In other words, nothing of value.

ORAMIO: What does the bible say about good works?

ASPIRATION: How will you know them?

ORAMIO: 🍎

ASPIRATION: And if you find nothing as the fruit? I was going to make an idle hands joke here. But no one took me up on it. Oramio's warning is a good one. And one I hope I and everyone else who's taking this seriously is considering.

*Later, Aspiration talks about risk.*

ASPIRATION: Lets talk about risks. Because there are some. Beyond finding nothing. The most apparent, beyond "I'm having a lot of fun and wasting your time", is this. I may be manipulating you into trusting me enough that I can pull off either A. A pump and dump for the record books or B. Creating a donation page the funnels money to me directly. And I am using an ingenious way of trapping you. The second, less apparent risk is this: If I am for real, and what I am doing does work as advertised, there is a non-zero chance that it can cause psychological harm. 

THOS: If those were your intentions, you probably wouldn't have shared them with us.

ASPIRATION: If I were wanting to dupe you, I would probably say exactly this, and this. I'm clever enough to pick stock options with a perfect rate, I'm clever enough to hide a story in it. I'm likely a good enough student of human psychology that I can convince you beyond those points. 

ORUS: What kind of psychological harm? Is the game that deep?

ASPIRATION: There is no way to know, for you, beyond experiencing this ride to it's conclusion. But lets talk about option two, which, If I'm reading Oramio's cryptic message correctly (and I deserve that) he is less concerned about that and I am more concerned about psychological harm. 

Two avenues that I can see immediately. One is that your well being in hinged on this group, and if it turns out to be a sham, you'll be hurt. I'm already aware of several folks this could be the case with. We talk privately about it. That one I'm less concerned about. But the concern sticks because vulnerable people exist and it's my responsibility, now that I've provided that forum, for them to have a place that is safe. The second, and more ominous one is this:

The stuff we are dealing with is at the center of personality and emotion. Just as with meditation, or with hallucinogens, there is a risk of harm. If you have been diagnosed with a personality disorder, or a mood disorder, please proceed with extreme caution and listen to yourself before you listen to me.

THALIAN: If you have not been diagnosed with a personality disorder, or mood disorder, you should do the same.

ASPIRATION: I am a compelling figure, there is responsibility with that. If you're concerned, I'd bring it up with a therapist or a trusted friend. Anybody else have anything we could discuss as far as risks? I know we do this every few days, but it's important.

THALIAN: What about what people choose to do with whatever it is they discover about themselves. Like for example if I achieve what you can do, how it can be used against people here I can easily replicate in my own distorted way. Or maybe I guess I am asking how are we going to equip ourselves against temptation.

ASPIRATION: What temptation? Oh, I see. If you get what I'm laying down, you won't be tempted to use it badly.

THALIAN: Is that because we are first learning how not to be a rhino?

ASPIRATION: It's because from the space of the end result, you won't have any desire to manipulate.

-

An evolving list of standard names can be found here: 



