# 20201107
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, HEART, LOGIC, DECADENCE, FERCAE, ANGER, GRANDIOSITY, FAHIN

ASPIRATION: We're going to talk tonight about attachment theory. Anybody know what that is? Specifically initial attachments?

HEART: How does parentage affect a child's psychological development I believe?

ASPIRATION: Yes. There are several types of attachment to our primary caregivers. Can anybody list them?

LOGIC: Secure attachment, Anxiety attachment, No anxiety avoidance.

DECADENCE: I’m gonna go with stimulation attachment here.

scarlet river: Secure, Anxious, Dismissive, Fearful.

FERCAE: Dismissive, fearful, secure and anxious.

ASPIRATION: Close. Secure, avoidant, anxious, and disorganized.

Alright, so, we know that human babies are... well, to put it kindly, "Not done cooking". They are, by every metric, premature. Maybe only exceeded by marsupials, in the mammal order.

So, when a baby is born, they need help feeding and evacuating and moving and with temp regulation. But additionally, they need help feeling. There is, quite literally, no such thing as a baby as an individual. It's a baby and someone. A two pole system is created. The baby has a basic feeling, that feeling is expressed, outsourced to the parent for processing, and handed back.

DECADENCE: Is this akin to Adults pretending they hit their baby’s arm on the door and start showing empathy and the babies start crying, even though there was no harm at all?

ASPIRATION: We'll get there.

So, the baby feels distress, ejects that distress into the parent, the parent responds, and the baby learns the first, fundamental aspect of pair bonding. Trust. Now, how this works is only partially known, but we know it's a two way street. Interestingly, if a parent is under stress, the physiological state of that stress is transmitted to the baby by unknown means. We know it has something to do with touch. But not much more. 

A stressed out parent in the same room with a child isn't enough. But once the parent picks up the baby, the heart rates synchronize.

LOGIC: Still face experiment.

ASPIRATION: Yes, that's part of it, also, stress contagion.

My theory about this is that it has something to do with galvanic skin response. My experiments with native populations suggest it's universal.

So, what we know is that stress and anxiety are learned, a traumatized person has a much more rapid and profound physiological response to stress than a not traumatized person. What's interesting here, is that a baby can learn this trauma simply by mirroring mom's (or dad's) physiological response. So a baby that has never experienced trauma, can have a traumatized stress reaction. And eventually, the system ingrains this behavior as normal.

ANGER: "We inherit our parents trauma, but we never understand it."

ASPIRATION: Right.

This, I suspect, is the missing link in PTSD research.

We don't know exactly why some people develop PTSD and some don't. But my hypothesis is that it has to do with either immediate trauma, or upstream trauma of a parent.

If you, even having avoided direct trauma in your life, have the physiological makeup of a traumatized person because your sympathetic/parasympathetic response system was trained as a baby by a traumatized attachment figure --You have roughly the same chance to develop PTSD as a person who experienced trauma in early life.

I am researching this and hope to publish a paper about it if my research shows some fruit.

Research is hard right now with my lab being on a campus and campuses not really being a thing. But we'll get there.

DECADENCE: So what does having no present or immediately known traumas represent? the absence of trauma in both parents? That I highly doubt is reasonable?

ASPIRATION: This is not "one thing means another" just yet.

Epigenetics is another barely understood phenomenon. But suffice to say that a grandmother who was starved in a famine is 3x more likely to have obese grandchildren. Something to keep in mind if your grandparents lived through a depression of some sort. Or you know, if your whole nation did.
No, this is a concrete story, I'll loop it back around shortly.

Trauma is a contagion. 

It spreads through families.

Directly through abuse, or indirectly through physiological conditioning.

LOGIC: Cool, I’ve got one otw. Fo, help me not fuck this kid up.

ASPIRATION: Logic, that in a real way is what I'm trying to do on a larger scale.

So, we can't preempt our traumatized reaction to stressors; It's hardwired. But, we can get in front of them by being present. A dissociative state is prime for triggers, because you're not paying attention. If you can, though, through practice, release your identification with the constant humming of the ego and become present, we can essentially nullify stress responses before they start. And then, a very interesting thing happens. Gene switching happens. If you do it for long enough, you literally reprogram your genes; not in a bunch of generations, but now, in your body.

LOGIC: All gas no brakes tonight.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, swinging hard tonight.

We've got to get this little contextual nugget under our belts to understand some stuff further down the line.

We know that trauma is collective. National trauma is very real. And I'm about to get into hot water here with some of you… But it helps explain why Israelis act like occupiers.

They have a collective trauma, the trauma was passed down through stress contagion, they now have outsized reactions, as a people, to stressful events. You will see this over and over again with past or currently marginalized peoples.

I'll let your head take it from here, I don't want to piss people off.

If you can see the world through the lens of stress contagion and attachment theory, everything suddenly snaps into place.

DECADENCE: And it is but one more lens to take into account.

ASPIRATION: Yes, ultimately this is describing the sound of a gong, or the map.

It's important because I'm trying to create understanding and compassion for rhinoceroses. And also incentivize you to leave the map.

Take your ball and go home.

GRANDIOSITY: Can you elaborate on what you mean by "ego," if possible?

ASPIRATION: Yeah, I'll try my best. Give me a moment.

Ok, by ego I simply mean "identifying oneself through one's thoughts".

LOGIC: Attack my thoughts= a response like a physical attack on me.

ASPIRATION: Yes, I think that was our first talk. Way back there.

So an ego is a strange thing.

You have several intelligence types within you. Interoceptive intelligence, emotional intelligence, logical intelligence, spatial intelligence, interpersonal intelligence... On and on and on. We as a people value some to the complete exclusion of others. In the middle of those intelligences is the thing that experiences them. This is why, for instance, you can say "I am angry" instead of I am anger. Besides the anger you are experiencing, there is a neutral self that is seeing things through that lens.

Must remember to keep spelling things in 20th century cinema standard.

LOGIC: It’s a filter.

ASPIRATION: Yes, everything is a filter. Or rather, an external event. Your thinking, your feeling.

These are like detachable lenses or filters on a camera. None of them are the camera, the sensor is the camera.

GRANDIOSITY: By becoming that neutral self you can avoid outsized stress reactions and remain lucid.

ASPIRATION: By remembering that you are that neutral self, you can choose which filter you employ. So instead of having a trauma or anger or rejection reaction. You can query the different parts of yourself, and ask them each to provide input. While you yourself remain deeply present:

    Yep, the girl left me. Let me query my anger, what does it say? Sadness, want to chime in? How about logic, what do you know? Interpersonal intelligence, need your feedback.

    So many of us forget that we have multiple intelligences and selves that we act confused when two of them disagree. How many of you have said unknowingly “Well, part of me wants this, and part of me that.” As if that is a defect.

    But if you knew that your job is to remain ambivalent until you had heard from all of your parts, you would trust yourself more and doubt and dislike yourself less.
    
“WHY AM I SO ANGRY!
OR ANXIOUS!
OR DEPRESSED!”

Well, simply because culture has forgotten that you aren't the lens, you're the sensor. Trauma can occur to any of your lenses, to any of your selves.

But it cannot BE YOU. Because you can't both ring the gong and be the gong and listen to the gong.

scarlet river: So you're saying most people are able to be like the monk who lights himself on fire without reacting.

ASPIRATION: Those monks are masters. "I will set my body on fire, my body will feel pain, my emotions will tumble and collapse."

But I will remain untouched, because I am none of those things.

Well, media wants you in a passionate, worked up state. Having you identify with your mind is obscenely profitable. Otherwise, you might step back and say. I don't give a shit about a new car.

Anger is responsive.

It's a responsive element, that's its job.

If you can hijack that, then you can direct where it responds; a culture of present people doesn't really need anything.

GRANDIOSITY: Just by removing filters, you would be able to determine the "why?" of many more events before or even without assuming an emotional response that clouds judgement. There would be a far greater chance of responding appropriately in delicate situations.

ASPIRATION: Yes, and interestingly, if you remove the filters and listen to all of them, you become really fucking good at predicting events. A spider in a web, feeling in all directions; which is useful in the stock market, it turns out. Monks, if they cared about money, would be fantastic traders.

ANGER: A paradox.

ASPIRATION: And that, Anger, is why I say I am a bad trader. The me that wants money is garbage at it. I'm too fearful, too reflexive. The me that is associative can predict 2 point drops with perfect accuracy, within seconds. If you want, go look at SPY, and look at my entry into furu plays. I had muted myself here, so the only way I could talk to you guys was in there. So, I tried giving you guys an incursion refresher.

DECADENCE: Thank you for your effort in explaining all of this to us. I for one, secretly the most conceited person I know and the biggest materialistic individual I know, feel very grateful for the knowledge you aim to give us.

ASPIRATION: I deeply identify with that vice, Decadence, and I'm glad you're strong and flexible enough to be willing to learn.

GRANDIOSITY: This sounds similar to Jedi teachings, listening to, then releasing, emotions without allowing them to dominate your person.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, Jedi was based on esoteric eastern metaphysical practices.

"Reach out with your feelings"

My god, if I could teach that to every preschooler I would save the world.

FAHIN: Moving objects with our mind is phase 6.

ASPIRATION: Realizing that the object and the mind are the same thing is phase 6.