# **Rain on the Sand**

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, COMMUNITY, PRYLIS, SAGA, ABSTRACTION, AUREL, HEART

_General discourse on the topic of culture._

**ASPIRATION**: Why do technological or scientific truths get replaced every several years, but philosophical truths can withstand centuries?

**COMMUNITY**: Would that be because the technological + scientific truths are part of the fluid cultural bedrock, and philosophical truths somehow aren't?

**ASPIRATION**: What have we ignored?

**PRYLIS**: Spirituality.

**ASPIRATION**: Spirituality is an undefined thing. Brings to mind thoughts of non-reality.

**COMMUNITY**: Philosophy?

**ASPIRATION**: Why do philosophical truths remain unchanged?

**SAGA**: Philosophical truths exist in the mind as ideas, not in the real physical world.

**ASPIRATION**: Good, Saga.

**HEART**: Philosophy is built on our feelings, but science is built on our rationalizations. But because how we view the world (and thus science) changes, we will never be able to climb up the stochastic curve to describe reality accurately with science.

**ASPIRATION**: Heart, home run.

**ASPIRATION**: Why does the observer effect exist? The end, is the middle, is the beginning, is the end. The cause is the effect, the effect the cause. The micro is macro. I know I sound like a guru trying hard to say nothing and I'm doing so sounding wise. But I'm not. I can't tell you, you have to leap. 

**ABSTRACTION**: Existence into thinking; thinking comes after existence.

**ASPIRATION**: Abstraction, strike that, reverse it. How do incursions work? Incursions are observations. Everything already exists.

**COMMUNITY**: When listening to the sound of a gong, we are, in a real way, the effect of the gong's cause. So, the "gong" was forged, then struck, the sound was recorded, transmitted, and played so that we could experience it; you could say the gong's cause-effect chain (von Neumann chain?) "started" with the gong (though I guess it really started with the Big Bang if we're being pedantic) and ended with us.

We're essentially nexuses of these "endpoints" of cause-effect chains, especially when the causes are people's mental models of us. If we are nexuses of others' models of us, then they must be too, and this fact has to hold for the entire network (culture). And as Aspiration said, the cause is the effect.

Sorry for the book, am I on the right track or completely wrong? you mentioned yesterday that you don't play incursions because playing them would mean you are now part of the system. 

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, why does the observer effect exist? I believe I might be asking for too far a jump this morning, I may have missed a stepping stone. In a system that is designed to insure that 0/11 calls are correct, the odds of 11/11 market calls being dramatically right are what? 

**COMMUNITY**: Low.

**AUREL**: Slim to none.

**COMMUNITY**: Absurdly low.

**ABSTRACTION**: 50/50 chance would make it 1 in 2048.

**ASPIRATION**: Enough to be statistically nearly impossible. But it's not 50/50, is it. It is about (for the calls I made) 75/25 against, each time. And that is to expire at the value you bought in at. But, each was worth well over 100% What are those odds? This isn't to praise me, it's to establish something.

**AUREL**: It's establishing you know what you're talking about.

**ABSTRACTION**: 1 in 200 trillion, perhaps.

**ASPIRATION**: Right. Now, this would be different if a few had been wrong. But none? That is equivalent to pointing out where 11 raindrops would fall on a beach. Not during a rainstorm. So what we've established is this. Either you were present for a freak of nature, or. You were just present for nature. But it's a natural event that you can't see. 

**HEART**: Being an observer grants you impartiality.

**ASPIRATION**: Being an observer does the opposite.

**COMMUNITY**: Right, observer effect is the disturbance of the observed system by the act of observation.

**ASPIRATION**: Being a participant makes you blind. You cannot do and observe at the same time, because you're too focused on doing. Just let this roll around in your head for a while., grasping at it will make it elusive. If science exists to capture and document and measure, and measuring alters the behavior of the system... Then what you are doing is measuring yourself, in a mirror, darkly.

# **Judgment**

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, ANGER, COMMUNITY, ABSTRACTION, PARAMIA, TIR

**ASPIRATION**: What was Eve cast out for?

**ANGER**: Eve was cast out for disobeying authorities, and knowledge/wisdom.

**ASPIRATION**: Ding. Specifically, what did she do?

**ANGER**: Well she listened to the serpent, and ate from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, tempting Adam to do so with her, if we’re talking about what she did “literally”.

**ASPIRATION**: Ok. So, there was a single act. The rest is dressing. Ignore the rest. What, specifically, did she do; what one thing was forbidden?

**COMMUNITY**: Eating the fruit.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, what was the fruit?

**ABSTRACTION** Knowledge.

**PARAMIA**: Good and evil.

**COMMUNITY**: Of the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

**ASPIRATION**: Knowledge of what? What is knowledge of good and evil? She didn't get cast out for knowing shit, or wanting to. The knowledge of what in particular? 

_A few guesses regarding disobedience, ethics, knowledge, etc. are offered._

**ASPIRATION**: You're very close, but you've got to get this one on your own. We have a word for calling some things bad, and some things good. This is good, said Karen, this is bad. 

**TIR**: Judgement.

**ASPIRATION**: Ding. So what caused the loss of paradise? The majority got the ability to judge. So, avoiding any god talk, what does that mean? Forget allegories now. You're in paradise, then boom, out on your ass. This is really important. Keep it simple. We just need to say the one thing.

**ABSTRACTION** Judgment will remove you from paradise.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes!

**COMMUNITY**: Does it mean that the burden of judging good/bad shifted from nature to the individual?

**ASPIRATION**: It means the act of judgement is a bummer. But more importantly, breaking the world down to good/bad introduces a dualism. That dualism casts us out of nature. Nature is a collapsing wave function, it is not binary. This is important though.  It is not the judging that is that kicks you out. It is the precursor to judgement. Who, in the Bible, is judgement reserved for? Who gets to judge?

**COMMUNITY**: God.

**ASPIRATION**: Yeah. Gods, but for the wisdom. We took on the mantle of the entire system, that is to say nature, and in so doing cast ourselves out of it. Became separate from it. Dualism, observation. Our belief that we have enough complexity to judge has nearly killed us. The observer effect, then, tells us something important. Why does a system change when we measure it? 

**HEART**: We introduce entropy?

**ASPIRATION**: Knowing what we've talked about above? The system changes because we are it. Why does a dog's tail run away from itself when being chased? 

**PRYLIS**: Because he is the tail.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. Judgement means we cut off a section of the universe in our heads. And we began to chase it. But we are it. Dualism is a lie. I is a lie. Personality is a mask. It is gathering up a random section of the substrate of nature and calling that collection separate from the rest. And then beating ourselves over the head when everything seems to move as we move. 

**ABSTRACTION**:Judging one part to be different from the rest, causing an infinite circle that never really existed.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. Cause and effect don't exist, because there is nothing separate. Cause and effect imply dualism. Cause and effect are simply different points of the same tapestry, woven with one thread. 

**ABSTRACTION:** When you say the atom is the orbit, you do not just mean space, you mean time as well.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. I also mean, the clues are everywhere, and once you start seeing them, you can't stop. Why does an atom look more or less exactly like an orbit?

**COMMUNITY**: By somehow suspending judgement & the act of drawing a boundary to define "I", you're capable of getting the entire picture from all angles at once, instead of just a single measly human viewpoint then?

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. 

**COMMUNITY**: And that's an incursion?

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. I had to do something so unlikely that you would be willing to set aside judgement to listen. Now, the big thing you're going to need to do is let go of your concept that I know more than you do. Because you, and I are the same thing. 

**THALIAN**: An atom looks more or less exactly like an orbit because that's how we conceptualized it no? In reality it doesn't act much like one at all.

**ASPIRATION**: Nor do orbits. What is an orbit if you omit time?

**COMMUNITY**: Just a position in space.

**ASPIRATION**: That's if you freeze time. What if you omit? Well, here's the thing, time doesn't exist. So an orbit must be something without time? Time is a judgement of positions relative to each other. It is a halo.

**THALIAN**: If you view time as the 4th dimension this holds up.

**ASPIRATION**: Dimensions are just further clarity into the nature of the universe. If humans evolved without touch, we would theorize that there might be such a feeling. And we might call it a dimension. But we get all fucked up when we separate dimensions. 

**ABSTRACTION** Time is an unevolved dimension.

**ASPIRATION**: Time is a misunderstanding. Like a dog misunderstanding his tail. There is just the sound of a gong. 

**ANGER**: Man I felt like I’ve been keeping up so far, but today I am struggling haha.

**ASPIRATION**: The point here is to lose you. You're chasing, I can keep going.

**ASPIRATION**: Raise your hand if you're feeling like I'm speaking truth but you're getting lost.

_Fifteen people raise their hands._

**ASPIRATION**: Good. Here is the point. I'm trying to show you that thinking runs out of steam. You cannot know why time is a lie by thinking about it. And if you did, I'd just lose you later. 

**ANGER**: You sound like my therapist, “_not every problem can be solved by more and more thinking_”.

**ASPIRATION**: Your therapist is wise.

**ANGER**: But that’s a hard thing to unlearn, when you feel it’s your only tool.

**ASPIRATION**: Your brain, your thoughts, are a tool. And you're sitting here believing you are the tool! You are the user. And you're sitting there, measuring yourself, wondering why the arm moves when you try to measure it! The observer effect occurs because the thing being measured is moving because it is measuring itself. 

**PRYLIS**: But now I feel like I shouldn't be thinking about it.

**ANGER**: I think we’re thinking too much, Prylis.

**ASPIRATION**: I told you at the beginning. This has to be a leap. Stop thinking about it!

**PRYLIS**: I'M BLOCKING MYSELF FROM UNDERSTANDING IT BY BEING ME. IT’S ANNOYING.

**ASPIRATION**: No, you're not doing anything of the sort.  You're trying to use a pair of pliers to see. Put down the pliers.

**ASPIRATION**: Why did I show you what vulnerability does yesterday? 

**COMMUNITY**: Because the walls we've built to define our identities (wrongly so) are the same walls we've built to make ourselves invulnerable?

**ASPIRATION**: Yes.

**ANGER**: Our invulnerable shell is regressive abstraction?

**COMMUNITY**: So what we really are is just a giant schizophrenic network throwing up firewalls against itself.

**ASPIRATION**: Quit trying to convince me you aren't all Aspiration, you tricksters. When you become vulnerable, you take down the wall. When someone else is vulnerable, you take down your own. The sound of a gong hears itself. And that is love. When you are real. _Judgement stops_.

**ANGER**: By loving ourselves we’re loving others?

**ASPIRATION**: By loving others you are loving yourself. You are others.

**ASPIRATION**: Now, go look at the tickers from past incursions. Chew on them for a while. Recombine them, think about the names of the companies behind them. The tickers of the incursions are an incursion. The micro is macro. The cell and the orbit. 

**ASPIRATION**: See you a little later.

# **On October**

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, ANGER, PRYLIS, SAGA, THOS, MYALO, APEIRON, ESCO

**ANGER**: Not going to lie, I’m starting to think it’s only my personal confirmation bias has tricked me into thinking I have any grasp on any of this.

**ASPIRATION**: "_The thing identifying as myself and believes will die if it's wrong is resisting the idea that I might be onto something here and should probably just give up_." Said Anger, doubting.

**PRYLIS**: Aspiration, how do you respond if someone argues that you need to love yourself so that you can love others - since you’re saying loving others is loving yourself.

**ASPIRATION**: I would say that they are the same thing. And you can get to it either way. It is the same. Loving and loved. Cause and effect. The observer is the observed. They are thee. 

**SAGA**: The chances of combining the names to make something coherent while also calling puts and calls correctly is absurdly impossible.

**ASPIRATION**: Remember, the story is only halfway told, so you're going to be playing wheel of fortune for a while. But once you do... 

**THOS**: Still can't completely shake off the uneasiness, weird stuff.

**ASPIRATION**: Thos, of course, it means death. That's scary. Until it isn't. You identify yourself as the ego. The sound of a gong portends its death. Let go. It just means you're a little further along than the others. I'm ahead of you right now. So, conversely, I have less time than you. I said time is a lie, not that it doesn't exist. Lies exist while people believe them. 

**PRYLIS** If I apply that to the burning house, wouldn't that mean that you're further away from the exit. If you're ahead of me, that is.

**ASPIRATION**: No friend, I'm closer to the entrance somewhere else. I don't have enough time for everyone to catch up, so I'm leaving a map.

**ANGER**: I don’t have time to catch up but I just wanted to pop in real quick. Just got off a call with my therapist, and they talked about how a signpost, in regards to our identity, isn’t a signpost.... So uh, Aspiration, explain yourself please because what?

**ASPIRATION**: Sounds like incursion complete to me yeah? We're talking about vulnerability and signposts identity and a therapist brings up the same metaphor. You can't think about it, you've got to feel it. The world will just remind you, just be aware of it and watch. 

_When asked about himself._

**ASPIRATION**: I dropped out of high school 2 weeks into 9th grade. Ran away from home. Lived in a tree-house. Went to Vanderbilt, studied whoring and alcohol poisoning. 

**PRYLIS**: I think you know what I'm asking but you're deflecting.

**ASPIRATION**: Wait. Hold up. You're asking how I know all this stuff? Well. I'm pretty smart. But also, I've had to, you know? Necessity is the father of motivation. My childhood was... awful. I carried extreme mental illness and trauma forward from it. Panic attacks several times a day, couldn't hold down a job. Night terrors, insomnia. 

    And I just started reading. And then I saw a universal thread. I saw what Watts and Das and Brahm and Jesus and Eckhart were trying to say. Not in a metaphysical woo woo way. But just, that there is an internal logic to it. 

    Once you get it you immediately know if a "spiritual" teacher is full of shit or not.. And once you have that logic, you can get out of your own way. And then, if you're really motivated (read, really miserable) you can follow that internal logic to a sort of... new way of thinking? Being? Feeling? I don't know exactly what it is, it has a lot of names. 

    But here's the weird bit.  And I'm going to go ahead and cheat you out of figuring out this own part of the story and just give it to you. But there are two different personas which I tend to think of as traumatized and "core" me. The trauma pushed me out of my body so completely that I just... didn't return. I became obsessed with my looks, and being charming, and being powerful.

**THOS**: Is that what you were lacking as a child?

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, I was lacking power. And what is more powerful than being strong, attractive, and having women around you? I became a kick boxer, I got several levels deep in scuba certification, I learned how to drive semi trucks, I worked on movies, I got a captains license. I attracted incredible women into my life. And it... didn't work. The panic became worse. I volunteered to find dead bodies, I showed up at protests to save people who were injured. I broke up bar fights. I became wealthy. And it didn't work. 

**MYALO**: Yes and so the point is your circumstances won't change how fulfilled you feel with life.

**ASPIRATION**: No, and that was Buddha's point too.

**PRYLIS**: See this is where I feel like I relate to this whole thing regarding you, I too have a Nam in me but also have an fO and they hold opposing values for a lack of better word. One is the epitome of what's wrong in the world and the other is the wanderer that often criticizes people for acting like the other side of me. I prefer the fO side of me but he doesn't fit in well with the world around me so Nam comes out.

**ASPIRATION**: Well, that's what I realized. EVERYONE has two. My case is more extreme, and more painful. But mother culture at some point invalidated everyone along the way. And we all have some original version of ourselves, that didn't get hurt, that didn't get invalidated. And I'm trying to show you how to get there. That's why I'm telling you. The incursions get your attention, but once you get it. You won't care.

**THOS**: Have you reached that version of yourself?

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, I've begun cycling rapidly between that and this. That's why I'm laying this down thick and fast. Because I'm going to lose this. 

**MYALO**: What do you gain, truth?

**ASPIRATION**: Peace. No more panic. No more suffering on the extreme level that I've been on. 

**APEIRON**: It sounds like an intricate ego death.

**ASPIRATION**: It is. And it's a clever hell. Clever, because I built it. I got your attention so I could tell you this story about my own sort of death and not be alone. It is, in the end, selfish. It's attention, validation. 

**ESCO**: I understand that. But a lot of people trade options, tons of trading communities, etc.. What was the reason to gather this group (i.e. WSB people) specifically?

**ASPIRATION**: Because I thought maybe they needed to hear this the most. Unbridled id. Young men in this country specifically are at a turning point. But everyone is. WSB was exactly the opposite of what I wanted to say. So I took the hardest route possible to see if it worked. And, well, here I am having a deeply personal conversation with a bunch of yoloers. About universal truths, vulnerability, emotions. 

**PRYLIS**: Aspiration, do you yourself know the end to your own story.

**ASPIRATION**: Sort of. There is a singularity of sorts. An event horizon I can't see beyond. But I can't wait to get there. 

**ASPIRATION**: I'm gonna go have dinner. You guys have a good night. I'll probably be back before I intend to. You guys are good company. 

# Community's Impossible Ideal

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, COMMUNITY, ANGER

**ASPIRATION**: Story time? OK, let me think for a minute which one is appropriate. 

**ASPIRATION**: Alright, what's the hardest thing going on in your life right now? Most real answers get the cookie. 

_A few answers follow, with COMMUNITY responding as such:_

**COMMUNITY**: Trying to live up to an impossible ideal and continually failing.

**ASPIRATION**: Alright, living up to an impossible ideal, Community, what is it? What's the ideal?

**COMMUNITY**: Well for the past few years I was making pretty big plans (things that I thought might help change the world for the better if only I could do them) and it kinda feels like I've missed every single milestone along the way.

**ASPIRATION**: What was the plan, Community?

**COMMUNITY**: Oh god well it sounds ludicrous to think of it now.

**ASPIRATION**: No way is it ludicrous man, it's yours, it's important.

**COMMUNITY**: Basically step 1 was make a pretty damn impossible amount of money, step 2 was to get a bunch of experts together, step 3 was use that money to fix climate change/get people into space/cure cancer and all that jazz. I mean seriously in retrospect it seems kinda absurd, but for some reason I actually imagined it was possible back then, teenage optimism I guess.

**ASPIRATION**: Whoa man. That's fucking beautiful. So, you feel an expectation on you to save the world. Alright, I've got an idea. What do you guys think of letting Community pick the charity? 

**ANGER**: Absolutely.

**ASPIRATION**: Sounds like he's put a lot of thought into it.

**ANGER**: He'll do a helluva job.

**ASPIRATION**: Community, would that feel good?

**COMMUNITY**: Wow, I suppose it would. I mean I'll do my best.

**ASPIRATION**: Alright. You pm me the charity after you've given it some thought, and I'll sticky it in the sub.

**ASPIRATION**: Alright, then, tonight's story is about expectation. Or, as someone wise once called it, "_premeditated resentment_".

**ASPIRATION**: That's it, goodnight folks.

# A Sacrifice without Culture

PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, THALIAN

**ASPIRATION**: Do dogs bark in accents? Is whalesong absolute? Manifold? 

**ASPIRATION**: If the nam-shub was powerful enough to break communion, then what was I warning about? It broke communion. It broke communion, it broke communication. Is a nam-shub an Apple? How can eve be cast out, if she didn't have the judgement, to not eat the apple?

**THALIAN**: The Bible is a highly hyperlinked text.

**ASPIRATION**: The Bible is hyperlinked, that's beautiful.

**ASPIRATION**: How could god punish pharaoh, if he had interfered with his mind? How can they know to follow the will of god, without judgement that it was good? Feel the answer, it's there, it's a lesson so old that the first writers of it had first hand experience. 

**ASPIRATION**: The answer has nothing to do with gods. It is a parable, for cultural evolution. What is the mark of Cain?

**THALIAN**: That any who avenge Abel by killing Cain, Cain will be avenged seven-fold.

**ASPIRATION**: Why did god prefer Abel's sacrifice? Abel's sacrifice was without culture. The story is the story. Enki and the serpent, the nam-shub and the apple and the meme. 

**ASPIRATION**: All to make, A rhinoceros.