title
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, FERCAE, INTROSPECTION, PRYLIS, ABSTRACTION, LOGIC

ASPIRATION: So let's talk about a specific function of identity, perception. And in this case I'll use sound. Those who are available, listen to the sound of the room you are in. Listen, specifically, for the quietest sound you can hear. And tossing aside the boring mechanics of it. Ask yourself this. That sound goes from it's source (which itself is coming from another source, ala newton)
through the air, and the solids of the room to a lesser extent. Into your ears. And from your ears, it is processed into electrical impulses, into your brain, where you become aware of it. And then, once your awareness passes, it is stored in memory somewhere. At which point does this sound become a part of you? At it's source? Deterministically? Upon hearing? Upon awareness?

FERCAE: Upon associating it with a memory.

ASPIRATION: And if you have no memory? If it is a new sound? So, I hear a sound, as you, presumably are hearing your own. Watch your awareness. Watch yourself hearing the sound, and your reaction to the sound. Your thoughts about the sound. The feelings you're feeling around the sound. All of this could be considered the qualia of the sound.

Now, this next part will be a leap. To you, right now. The sound that you're listening to, and your thoughts about the sound, are both externalities. Because you are listening both to the sound, and witnessing your reaction to it. And in this way. Neither are you. The sound, and the thoughts about the sound. Are both the same stuff. You make a determination that your reaction to the sound is "you" and that the sound is "not you". But your brain can't help but show the lie. Because you are watching both. Now, if we can pare down identity only to that which perceives, but not that that thinks. We can go the other way. Instead of drawing the line of identity at perception move it a bit to inciting incident. We've already discovered that this boundary is fluid. The boundary of identity. Lets expand it. Instead of drawing the line at the moment you become aware of it, draw the line at the sounds source.

Invite the source of the sound to become a part of your identity. The entire process. For now, we'll keep this very small. And I imagine if you're successful at all you'll have a fear reaction to it. But encompass the source of the sound as part of who you are, instead of drawing an arbitrary line somewhere else. This will be hard, most won't be able to do it at first. Those who do will have a powerful reaction to it.

INTROSPECTION: The sound comes from inside of you then. Or a part of 'you'.

ASPIRATION: Yes, but, we're intentionally keeping this very small. Hear the sound, expand your sense of self to encompass the source of the sound. Now, for about 3 minutes, simply sit in silence and hold this. Keep listening to the sound, keep watching your own reaction to it, realize that both of these things are both externalities. And so illusory.

It doesn't matter what the sound is. I'll stop typing, for three minutes, starting now. Allow your identity to involve the source of the sound.

*Three minutes pass.*

Welcome back. Now, before you all start shouting at me. This was very hard. So if you didn't get it, that's fairly expected. But it did put you in space to do the next thing.

ABSTRACTION: Is this exercise teaching us how to ring our own gong?

LOGIC: It seems like an exercise to focus. Everything tries to just listen, but you’re snapped back. Almost like an out of body experience, or ventriloquism, throwing your focus at something.

ASPIRATION: Think of it as stretching, before the exercise. So, now that we're limber. We're going to do the exact opposite, this will be simple.

This next exercise should be calming, instead of excitatory. Now, we're going the other way. Keep listening to the sound. But watch both the sound, and your reaction to the sound. Keep your eyes on both. Now is just a time to do. Watch the sound. No interruptions. Now we just do, and let the fears of failing or not understanding all become part of the exercise. Listen. And listen now, not just to the sound. But your reaction to the sound. Your thoughts, your fears, your disbelief, all clamoring, louder than the sound itself. Watch all of those too, as if they were just as external to you as the sound itself. Because of course they are.

PRYLIS: I can't just shut up in my own head, it's infuriating. 

ASPIRATION: That's the point. Watch your head babble. And for the next three minutes. Listen to the sound, and listen to your reaction for the sound, and ask yourself. What is it that is listening and watching this process. And for the next three minutes, wonder what the part of you is the "I" in that statement, starting now. Welcome back.

You probably feel a bit quieter. All I want you to see, is that your definition of what you are is entirely made up, and probably unchallenged. Are you that which watches your thoughts? Are you instead that and your thoughts. Or are you instead that, and your thoughts, and the external stimulus that generated the train to begin with? Or are you all of those, and every function that arose in the infinitely long chain of energetic custody that resulted in that sound, that started before the big bang? Now. When you get good at this, it will feel like dancing. You will listen to the sound of the wind, and cause and effect fall away. You'll hear it, and you'll feel as if every rise and fall of it is also you.

INTROSPECTION: You really aren't listening to the sound of the wind.

ASPIRATION: You really are the wind. End story time.

Once you become good at willfully moving what you identify yourself as. To either make it smaller, or larger. You'll be able to allow it to become anything. Incredibly complex systems can exist wholly as a part of you, and you can dance with them. And that, my friends, is when you'll be able to make incursions on silly things like stock market tickers. Yes, once you are overwhelmed with the well being of dancing with existence, you won't care about options either. But if you need money for something, you'll know that it's just already there for you.

So, homework. Meditation is simple, it's easy, it's pointless, and that is exactly the point. Go, sit, meditate on this, listen to the sounds in the room. Do it for 15 minutes. Meditation is dancing, there is no point to dancing. Set a timer and go sit. Listen to the world, and listen to your silly self react to the world, and be OK with both. Don't try to "quiet your mind". That concept is cruel at this point. Just go sit, and dance with the sound and your reaction. Even if your mind is a monkey screaming from branch to branch. Let it be.