# 20201108
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, MYALO, SERHOM, ANGER, LOGIC, COMMUNITY

ASPIRATION: Thought experiment time! Anyone here? Ok, yesterday we talked about dualism. We've talked about the fundamental problem in the Cartesian split, and essentially, where we have gotten to is this: There is, within each of us, a neutral observer that views the world through various lenses, yeah?

Everybody comfortable with that so far?

A church is more or less exactly the antithesis of what I'm trying to do. I am a middle aged dude of middling circumstances and a good ability to tell a story. I am not an authority by any means. The structure of this should be one of one preschooler showing another preschooler a frog that they found on the way to school. So we can both go "Whoa, coooooool" at the same time. I just happened to walk by the frog.

I'm actually more excited about this next story time than all the other ones before it.

This is when we put shared context to the test to build a new concept that you can intuit.
And I think it will feel good.

MYALO: Ye I feel everything in this channel is abstract enough to where it is allowed to not really make sense or have use in reality but be perceived otherwise
Personal opinion but…

SERHOM: Right, there's a lot of enlightenment teachers out there. I'm a Christian but I didn't stop at scripture to get some teaching. Honestly Alan Watt taught me a ton of stuff I never would've come across just from Christian texts.
fO just may not be a teacher for you.

ASPIRATION: And that is perfectly ok. You either trust that I'm on to something, or you don't. If I'm not, not harm, no foul. The only thing you have to go off of that I might be onto something is my incursions. I'm not asking for anyone's trust or approval. Just company, if they want to give it.

You will never know it. Is sort of my point. You can analyze it to pieces and you'll end up further away from your goal. This requires abstraction. If I could tell you how to do this using the dominant cultural paradigm. I'd write a paragraph and we'd all be done. Unfortunately, I've got to get you to use resources inside yourself that you either don't ever use, use sometimes, or don't know that you have.

Some of you are discovering that these resources have been talking to you your whole life and you haven't been giving them much weight.
Some of you are actually already quite strong with this stuff.
Some of you have no idea at all that there is more to yourself than your thoughts.

But honestly. I don't care about the plays. The plays were a flare that I shot up in the air to get your attention. How in the hell did I do it? That's the point of this channel. Do I care about the stock market? Literally not at all.

And I will dare to say, that you haven't got a chance at doing an incursion if making money on the stock market is your goal. It would be much better to listen to Lily and the other conventional traders. They're brilliant, I put them in place for that reason.

ANGER: So the incursions, and the plays, are a tertiary effect to some extent. to focus on them is to lose the message, ironically meaning they would never be an option in the first place.
You cant see the forest if you focus on a single tree, and a tree is not indicative of the forest.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, it's driving to a sign that points to Seattle and telling yourself you're in Seattle.

Anyway, Logic is jumping the gun so I'd better get going.

Alright, so we've established that the surface of a pond is a metaphor. In a brutish kind of way we can simply say that it is the "universe". And it has ripples. And a few of those ripples have names. And when those ripples reach out and try to measure other phenomenon of the pond, they find that the phenomenon changes BECAUSE it's being measured.

This is called, in science, the observer effect.

You cannot measure the system you're interested in without changing it because you are part of that system yourself. And we get lost, thinking "I'm this dude named Joe, and I think, and that makes me Joe and not Bill, who thinks other things." But what we've tried to establish is that you are instead a collapsing wave function. The ego is complex ripples on a pond, not at all separate from the pond.

ANGER: We got so caught up in observing, that we forgot about the observer.

LOGIC: So I, as a ripple, attempting to interface with other ripples, cause them to change?

ANGER: You can't figure out how a car works, if you ignore the engine.

ASPIRATION: Yes, Anger.

Well, Logic, see here we run into the other lesson, which is that "we" are not ripples. Our ego is ripples.

And so we jump into the other lesson.

What are we?

We've established that there is a neutral observer who observes the various mental and emotional and physical states we are in. And with the mediation exercise I gave a few days ago… I tried to show you that these disparate parts of you are a collection of advisers, but they are not you.

You are that ineffable thing that observes them.

You start to get culturally and emotionally ill because you identify with one aspect of yourself. And think it is you. But you know, intuitively, that ripples go away.

Waves collapse.

This is bad!

That means once this standing wave function, or ripple inevitably dissipates to a to a certain degree… You stop being. You die. Oh my god, the fear.

So. Now we have two concepts.

My ego, they way culture has taught me to identify myself, as a wave function. And I think I am it. And I will die. And that gives me anxiety.

But, here we go. We're about to connect the two.

So what is the neutral observer?

COMMUNITY: The neutral observer = the pond.

ASPIRATION: Yes, the neutral observer is the pond. It has nothing to do with your ego. Your ego is a temporary wave function around that which you are. It will ripple for as long as it does, and then die. But here's the thing.

There is no section of the pond. We are all the same neutral observer. We are one thing. Your neutral observer and mine are not disparate sections of the pond. They are the same "entity". I'm just you, in my ripple. You're just me, in yours. And so, we get to "what's the point"? The point is for existence to observe itself.

ANGER: It's almost a form of... observer solipsism? (but without the baggage of that word, just the idea of the one pond).

Sure, but exactly the opposite.

LOGIC: We are the universe observing and experiencing itself.

ASPIRATION: Solipsism suggests that you are the only one that exists. This suggests the opposite, that the universe is the only one that exists, and that you are a zoomed in observation of a particular, unimportant ripple. This is what Buddhists suggest when they say we are all one. But we lack the original context to know what they mean. Too much time has passed. Culture has left it behind.

ANGER: Oh! Like the "One Electron Universe"?

ASPIRATION: That's a very ego forward way of describing the exact same thing, ANGER.
Same with the universe as hologram.

LOGIC: To understand the vast is to understand the microscopic.

ASPIRATION: But intuit this, and then grapple with it.

ANGER: Yeah this was something I was writing on a while ago:
"The general hypothesis was that all electrons (and positrons, though those are of less note in this application) are in fact a manifestation of a single entity. That is to say, there is only one electron total. Wheeler stated the idea roughly condenses to the concept of tracing a world line across space time as a single electron path, rather than the path of multiple electrons. Spacetime could then be vivisected, and such a slice would constitute a single moment in time. An intersection in the electron path would then be plotted as a "real" electron at that slice in spacetime."

ASPIRATION: We are not separate sensors viewing ripples. We are one sensor focused on multiple ripples. If you quiet it all down. You can feel that you don't have a future, or a past, or a memory, or an ego, or feelings about this thing or that.

You are just a perfectly neutral eye.

But here's what this class is about. Because you probably had some fairly faint idea either through other ideologies, or your own intuition, that this may have been the case. My trick. My incursions?

Is that I can zoom out.

The Stock market is a rainstorm on the pond.

But once you get into the habit of detaching from this, you can zoom out and see the pattern of a whole section of the pond.

ANGER: The pond is the probability matrix of every possible occurrence, would you say? We get caught up on a tiny section, thinking it's all there is.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, in a way. But man, the pond simply is everything. You can dice it up philosophically or spiritually or scientifically.

COMMUNITY: Those are all maps.

ASPIRATION: If you're aware enough you'll see that philosophy, spirituality, and science are all saying the same GD thing.

ANGER: We create the idea that one must lead to another, but forget that is only because we sort it into that, yeah, map.

ASPIRATION: They all point to a pond. They all point to cohesion, non locality. Illusion, a central "theory of everything" Quantum phenomenon makes perfect intuitive sense from this vantage point. So does buddhism. So does genesis.

So do incursions.

And when I see a ripple from a non-local frame, and watch it. I call it an incursion. And it looks like I have insider knowledge.

COMMUNITY: Wait, when you hear the "crowded train station" kind of noise, you're zooming out?

ASPIRATION: Yes, Gaspode, you're distancing yourself from your ripple, by seeing it as separate from yourself.

But you can't just describe the thing. Because nature and your understanding of nature are at polar opposites. This is why quantum phenomenon is so damned unintuitive.

Guys, more research is fine. It really is, but understand that you're making a high resolution map of the territory. And at some point, you're just going to have to sit down and be it. Studying yourself as if you are a disparate thing is impossible.

Just go chill in the pond all day, and listen to what your local ripples tell you about yourself. It's great fun.

The trainstation meditation I outlined yesterday is a good way to get into it if you're new.

But now take that understanding of what I've said today into it.