title
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, NOX, COMMUNITY, ABSTRACTION, INTROSPECTION, THALIAN, APEIRON, KYNZON, PRYLIS, HOPE

So, we're going to talk about self hate, and we're going to talk about Cain. So real quick, who was present for the talk about attachment theory?

NOX: I read it after the fact.

COMMUNITY: I was.

ABSTRACTION: I was here. 

ASPIRATION: Ok, and you guys remember the gist about attachment and trauma? Alright, so, first, really quickly. What happened with Cain and Abel?

INTROSPECTION: You mean literally or the underlying reason?

ASPIRATION: Yeah the literal read on it.

THALIAN: They both made sacrifices to God

INTROSPECTION: Cain murdered Abel, his brother.

ASPIRATION: Ok, yeah, they did. Alright, so, the nam-shub of "this brother killing brother in front of father" story is ancient, and it serves two purposes.  Both as a cure, and as a warning. What was the sacrifice of each? What did each brother offer their father?

APEIRON: Food.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, what kind? Really important here. The actual foods, what were they? The fruit of the ground, yeah? Commonly assumed to be a sheath of wheat. 

KYNZON: Oh right, to make bread with.

ASPIRATION: Right. Who gave the bread? Which brother?

INTROSPECTION: Well, Cain.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, and God didn't like it. God didn't like it, because it was antithetical to the lesson of original sin. What do you need to grow wheat?

KYNZON: Rain, sun, land.

INTROSPECTION: Seed.

ASPIRATION: And people. To grow wheat, you need an agricultural society. Humans were nomadic up to this point, yeah? And what did Abel offer?

COMMUNITY: Abel offered sheep from his herd.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, and god liked it better. So, it's a leap here. But essentially the story is saying. "I like you better when you don't have culture".

COMMUNITY: Agricultural society requires planning for the future. Hunting and gathering does not, it's a spontaneous unpremeditated act of getting food.

ASPIRATION: Exactly.

ABSTRACTION: Abel offered nature, Cain offered culture.

ASPIRATION: Yes! Exactly!

ABSTRACTION: Cain saw culture as being more important.

ASPIRATION: Well, why would God prefer nature to culture, given what we know about the underlying concept of original sin? Being cast out of Eden was essentially human beings developing the ability to judge. Now, once you're out of paradise, which by definition is a goal state. You should probably try to get back in. Abel showed that he got the ABSTRACTION. Cain showed that he was further away from it.

Cain, being in full on denial of presence, completely now unaware of the pond, which is shown by him doubling down on culture in this story. He REACTS and kills his brother, who is trying like hell to stick to the original Paradise script.

God tries to teach the lesson again.  Really hammering home the point, by marking Cain. Old testament god loves to do this shit. If you fuck up, he doesn't punish you directly, he says "Yeah, OK, well, I guess you'll have to live with that now."

Cain's mentality locked him into a course. And God was like, you've got to see this through now. Once a rhino, always a rhino. So the mark of Cain is civilized, agrarian culture. And God, being God, uses this "mark" as a warning. He says, and I'm paraphrasing slightly. "Look the fuck out, other humans, agrarian culture is coming for you and it's going to try to wipe you out." 

ABSTRACTION: Isn't an attack against the mark of Cain paid back 7 fold? If you question the opinions of those with the mark of Cain, they will violently react.

ASPIRATION: Ding. You got there before me. What happened yesterday when I challenged the dominant cultural paradigm that men should hold their feelings in?

THALIAN: Culture fought back.

ASPIRATION: Fuck yeah it did. Was it a 1 for 1 reaction?

COMMUNITY: Eh, more like a sevenfold reaction.

ASPIRATION: So, remember, these stories aren't supernatural.  They are very, very well thought out tales but they are using a form of thinking that we aren't used to anymore. So the story is a warning. What has happened to nomadic people since this story was published?

ABSTRACTION: Gone.

ASPIRATION: The hunter gatherers?

PRYLIS: That's why you don't own shit, isn't it, Aspiration.

ASPIRATION: Yes. I'm nomadic. I own things, but I'm not tied to them. I can walk away and they automatically default to other people. But this isn't about me or my decisions. 

But… We lost paradise. This is a story about how to think, remember? So, be really careful as I use ancient religious stories. That you don't think in terms of supernatural elements. 

So, self hate. Lets get moving here, now that I have established some context under us. And I'm going to keep using the same story. So now, Abel is dead, Cain is chilling with God. God has told Cain... you suck. How does Cain feel? I mean, god is infallible. Right? So by definition, Cain can't tell god he's wrong. God, being infallible, means Cain can't even feel that god is wrong. Because if he lets himself believe that, even for a moment, then that means the entire universe is wrong. 

INTROSPECTION: It would shatter his world view.

ASPIRATION: Exactly. So, Cain fucked up, and he cannot blame the other party or even question them, or else his entire universe shatters. So how does Cain feel?

INTROSPECTION: Nothing would be aligned or make sense anymore, given the framework he believed in and was forced into; hence self hatred.

ASPIRATION: YES. He fucking hates himself.

INTROSPECTION: With nowhere else to direct it.

ASPIRATION: Only inward. So this applies to you more simply than you might think. And in a more complex way too. It's turtles all the way down. But… God is a parent, Cain is a child. A child, based on our exploration the other day of attachment theory… REQUIRES the parent to function emotionally. REQUIRES the parent to take in unorganized emotion and present them with a packaged, manageable solution. 

You do that enough times, you learn basic trust, that you can depend on the universe for your needs. Because that early on, your parent is the universe.

PRYLIS: God = universe?

ASPIRATION: God=father. This is why religious teachings always list gods as parents. So, here we go, we're getting close. Now, instead of Cain and Abel you have you, and your parent (probably mother). If your parent rebukes you, or doesn't meet your needs that early on, THEY CANNOT BE WRONG. Because if your parents are wrong, your universe shatters. So, if there is trauma or pain in your attachment with your parent. Who are you going to blame for your needs not getting met?

INTROSPECTION: Yourself.

ASPIRATION: Yes. And if that attachment is broken, you will continue to see it as the default paradigm for all relationships going forward. Battered women make abusive men their attachment figure, because it's what they know. And with it, when they are abused. The abuser cannot be wrong, because that shatters the attachment figure paradigm. So they return, again and again, to see if they can do better this time.

INTROSPECTION: So you have to let go of the paradigm and establish a different one.

ASPIRATION: Yes. This is why you keep making the same mistakes in relationships. You are desperately trying to FIX YOURSELF. But the problem is, the problem was never in you. But you HAVE to believe it was, or the universe shatters.

ABSTRACTION: What if your relationship is going pretty swell?

ASPIRATION: Lots of reasons, maybe you had a secure attachment, maybe you found a way out. But this conversation is directed toward the problem of self hate. And I guarantee you, if your problem is self hate, your relationships are not going very well. So bring it home, someone. Why do you hate yourself?

INTROSPECTION: Because you have nobody else to hate, given your framework. You've been taught to.

ASPIRATION: Because the alternative is death. You cannot alienate God, or you will die. 

ABSTRACTION: Unsurprisingly that event involved a total ego death.

ASPIRATION: Exactly. Your ego is the one with this framework. Your ego learns that you are unlovable because your parents fucked up, and they were infallible. So you visit the sins of the father, on yourself. This in turn makes you unable to respond appropriately to your own children when they have needs. Old time culture calls this "The sins of the father" but the scientific name for this is Intergenerational transmission of trauma. And if you wonder why marginalized populations are more violent, more self destructive, more addicted, and have higher suicide rates.... well, now you know. 

This is why people in old times believed in "Good breeding". 

ABSTRACTION: It wasn't genes, it was memes.

ASPIRATION: Abstraction with the grand slam. I'm telling a story, it begins with stock picks, and it ends at the beginning.

ABSTRACTION: The well off individuals had good nam-shubs, people mistook that for good genes.

ASPIRATION: Or more simply, they had their needs met. Trauma was low, resources were high. Find another family like that, make babies, perpetuate a ruling class that is able to function better because it doesn't hate itself. The poor stay poor, the rich get richer. This is why. And ultimately, its why by the end of this, I told you if you got it you wouldn't care about money anymore. Because if you get this, you'll have healed that.

ABSTRACTION: It's who you are, not what you have.

ASPIRATION: Yeah. Genetics can provide temperament. High arousal or low arousal babies. But culture dictates what you do with that.

PRYLIS: The rich are more sensitive, easier to trigger.

ASPIRATION: They are much more sensitive. This is reflected in their tastes. Subtle, subdued. In this case I'm talking about generational wealth. Not new money, which can be traumatized and rich.

INTROSPECTION: Sure. But you can have 5m or 15m passed down, is that rich? Or does it start at 100m? And after a point is there a difference?

ASPIRATION: The money doesn't matter, the power does. Self directed individuals. Trump was born rich, but also DEEPLY fucking tramatized. Obama was born poor, but was given tools with lots of love and affection and a secure attachment. 

PRYLIS: Wouldn't the rich be more in tune with culture?

ASPIRATION: Well, think about it for a moment. In the 50's there was a movement among the rich. It had to do with salad. To be properly rich, you enjoyed very, very subtle nuance. So poor people would have an iceberg lettuce salad drowning in ranch and blue cheese. The very rich would have carefully selected baby spinach in an unwashed salad bowl. Not washing the salad bowl was thought to add layered nuance to the flavors of the spinach.

They didn't get their psyches fucking exploded with trauma. And back in the day, it was only the rich who were not traumatized.

ABSTRACTION: I assume that's what proper manners is all about.

INTROSPECTION: Right. Often great upbringing. Everything provided. A path.

ASPIRATION: Yeah. If your psyche can pick up complex nuance, it's probably never had a bomb thrown in it. Princess and the pea.

PRYLIS: But I feel like manners is organized like the agricultural society.

ASPIRATION: Yeah, agricultural society works for some people. But by definition it can only be the people who own the field. Not the people who guard it. We are structured around power. With land ownership at the center. In 200 years, we'll look back at this time if we make it, and they'll see property ownership they way we see slavery. Like, HOW IN THE HELL COULDN'T THEY SEE THAT. 

INTROSPECTION: That's a very interesting idea. Land can't be owned? Because it by design excludes?

ASPIRATION: If someone can OWN land, and benefit from it, how can anything ever truly be equal. Look, land is productive. It's not productive because you're rad. It's productive because that's a quality in and of itself. It can grow things, or hold them. That has nothing to do with you being rad. So if you own it, then you can exclude other people from the fecundity of it, even though it's fecundity has nothing to do with you.

INTROSPECTION: Isn't it an investment?

ASPIRATION: Yes, you can make land more valuable. But imagine... if you were simply paid to make land more valuable from the profits of that labor. 

PRYLIS: Waaait, isn't it like the people that find out there's oil under their land? They benefit from it even though it had nothing to do with them.

ASPIRATION: Yes, that's a great example, Prylis. Quick aside, I am not advocating for communism.

INTROSPECTION: That's good for them. They perhaps took on risk owning that land.

ASPIRATION: Owning land is never a risk.

INTROSPECTION: How so?

ASPIRATION: Well, there is a reason we call it real estate. Short term risk is noise to generational wealth. 

INTROSPECTION: What if you live near an ocean, with hurricanes and erosion, or a decaying facility that pollutes the water near you?

ASPIRATION: That is literally and figuratively an edge case. We have a name for land that is so damaged by past activity that it is no longer valuable to anyone. It's called a superfund site. And there is a lovely system of governance that makes sure that these poor, poor massive land owners are compensated for the fact that they made the site absolute poison for hundreds of years.

PRYLIS: Did the conversation purposely go towards real estate?

ASPIRATION: No, we're just sort of riffing now.

HOMEWORK.

We can only reverse self hate by being present. So go, get present (maybe use meditation if you don't have another way to do it). And then look at your actions as if you are a child. And your present state is a loving parent. What would you tell yourself about the last thing you did that made you hate yourself? How would a loving parent react to the last shitty thing you did? If you were 6, and they actually were the loving present parent they should have been.

PRYLIS: Wow we need to internalize our own loving parent.

ASPIRATION: Of course. Where else are you going to get the secure attachment and love you're missing. I can build up a community that makes you feel better about yourself, that shows you that vulnerability increases your lovability. Quit telling the story of yourself from a traumatized parent point of view. 

End storytime.

*Later.*

HOPE: Just read today's story, and I've got a question.

ABSTRACTION (Dharma Bum Guide): Whats up?

HOPE: Is it possible that God hates culture/agriculture because like… when you create a culture it has an us vs them. You cant have an in-group without an out-group; if we're all supposed to be part of the same pond, that's not right.

ASPIRATION: That's exactly it, and other things. But be careful you're not associating the word god with the cultural word God. A better interpretation would just be "what is" or "the underlying". Nothing supernatural.

HOPE: I'm not sure how much Hinduism you know, but I’m thinking of it along the lines of the Atman.

ASPIRATION: That's a close approximation. Peyote goat god would be another. Just about every religion points to the inciting incident of "all that is". Christian god simply says the great "I am". Or the "alpha and omega". Dude, being a dude with a beard is the ego of folks further down the line. But they are all the same thing, different riffs on the same massive unquantifiable. Most of them have children that end up being an allegory for the sun. As the sun was obviously of heaven, but distinct. If you think of it from the perspective of a bunch of dudes without telescopes, that makes a lot of sense.

The sun being the son chases away darkness, always to rise again. Removing attachment is another was of saying "quit associating with your local ripple as yourself". Stop demanding that this is you. 