# 20201105
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, PRYLIS, COMMUNITY, THALIAN, MINERVA, GRALEIV, ABSTRACTION, DENIRA, FAHIN, ELIAS, PARAMIA, ANGER

*Regarding trading*

**PRYLIS**: He plays off of vibes.
 
**ASPIRATION**: Yes, in the absence of thought. I've been saying that from the beginning. You can't get a real vibe unless you scrub identification with the brain. Because you won't listen. 

We have a private chat here with some of the best traders in the world. They make a ton of money. My being in proximity to them is killing my portfolio. Because it's tempting, when you have so many great minds, to listen to them. I'm becoming a rhinoceros. 
 
**PRYLIS**: You're caving into what's around you? 
 
**ASPIRATION**: Yes. The rhinoceros is the most infectious disease in the world.
 
**COMMUNITY**: Oh something occurred to me this morning and I completely forgot about it until now, but: Incursions are observations. The observer effect (the system you're observing is disturbed by the observation) makes me think the incursions aren't just a one-way street of information

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, incursions are made by trying to disturb the underlying substrate as little as possible.

**THALIAN**: Can a surfer disturb an entire wave?

**ASPIRATION**: A surfer can disturb the wave if he is the wave. Put another way: What, at its most basic essence, is consciousness?

**THALIAN**: Electrical signals.

**ASPIRATION**: Right, but what does it do? Well, wait, not right, and what does it do? Very, very basic, what is the function of consciousness? 

**THALIAN**: Consciousness monitors our standing in the world. 

**ASPIRATION**: More basic.

**MINERVA**: Awareness of self.

**ASPIRATION**: On the right track.

**THALIAN**: Tells us when we are dying.
 
**ASPIRATION**: More basic. Fire burns, waves crash, consciousness... does what?
 
**GRALEIV**: Observation.
 
**ASPIRATION**: Yes. And it observes what, at its most basic?
 
**THALIAN**: Itself.
 
**ASPIRATION**: Exactly right, but what is itself? 
 
**THALIAN**: Everything.
 
**ASPIRATION**: Yes. Exactly. Consciousness is the act of the universe observing itself. So why does the thing observed change when it's being observed?
 
**THALIAN**: Course correction.
 
**ASPIRATION**: Simpler.
 
**COMMUNITY**: Because it's the dog chasing its own tail.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, the measuring tape is trying to measure itself. You view it as something else. Because you're a rhinoceros. You think. But Aspiration! It's so far away! And I am so over here! Anyway! 

***Story time!***

What did the first American Indian scouts see when they first saw European tall ships on the water?

**COMMUNITY**: If I recall correctly, they didn't see it at all.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. Why not?

**COMMUNITY**: Because there was no way for those perceptions to fit into their mental framework.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. Their story of who they were and what could be wasn't sufficient to incorporate frigates. But, the scouts, according to tradition, were pretty wise people. So they saw nothing on the water, what did they do?

**COMMUNITY**: Presumably nothing.

**ASPIRATION**: Well, precisely that. But it was a wise nothing. Because they knew something was wrong. So they sat there, and watched the water. Why would they do that, if they couldn't see the ships?

**COMMUNITY**: Because they could still sense them, somehow, in the same way a spider can sense the vibrating web?

**ASPIRATION**: Yeah, spooky vibe. Something is wrong. Something is here. Now, I don't know if that story is real, or not, but it persists for a reason.

**ABSTRACTION**: Is that the same reason we watch the markets all day? Something is wrong but we just don't know what.

**ASPIRATION**: No, we watch the market all day because we've become convinced that once we figure out the madness in it, our lives will become better.

You're performing the same religious rite as countless other people have. The stock market is an ineffable god, if I understand it and know it well enough, my suffering will cease. 

**PRYLIS**: They watched the water because they can see an increase in waves, aka something is wrong?

**ASPIRATION**: I don't know, I wasn't there. but the story is a parable. They sat and watched because they couldn't tell what was going on, but the vibe told them something was there. 

But, look, now I get the feeling that some of you are watching me like you watched the stock market. I am not special in any particular way. 

**DENIRA**: The ripples are an effect of something behind the horizon; a symptom we mistake as the illness.

**ASPIRATION**: It's all ripples. And ripples is a good word, because it describes the nature of the universe. 

**PRYLIS**: What is the hammer hitting the gong then.

**ASPIRATION**: Prylis, that is outside of my knowledge, probably always will be. But it's an amazing question. A gong reminds some deep part of us that the universe is a wave function. And that a ripple, rippling about to observe another ripple, is going to cause that ripple to change. 

But you're not the ripple, you're the pond. 

**ABSTRACTION**: But we think we are the ripple.

**ASPIRATION**: Yeah.

**ABSTRACTION**: Are we all the pond?

**ASPIRATION**: Of course, what else could there possibly be?

**ABSTRACTION**: Multiple ponds?

**ASPIRATION**: Maybe, but that would just be a bigger pond. The thing is the thing. I am that I am. The alpha and the omega. If you identify as a ripple, you're going to get really surprised when other ripples intersect you in odd ways.

**PRYLIS**: Not asking you to do so, but would ALLLLL of this be able to be put in a well construed sentence?

**ASPIRATION**: It already has been, Prylis. What do you think the tickers are about?

**PRYLIS**: I'm talking about everything you've worked on to make all of this happen, everything you're telling us, the incursions, the end the beginning the everything.

**ASPIRATION**: Well, here's the thing. If I just gave you the sentence, it wouldn't make any sense. We need to share a common context. 

If I told you "_it's like Romeo and Juliet in the balcony scene_" and you were an alien with no context, that wouldn't make a lot of sense; though the sentence is simple. 

What I really want you to understand is that I'm just telling a story. I'm not special.

**FAHIN**: To be fair, it feels like that scene in I Robot sometimes... where Will is looking for answers and the computer be like "You must ask the right questions" some people don't have the patience for that.

**ABSTRACTION**: They just want the Sparknotes.

**FAHIN**: Not your fault if they're impatient.
 
**COMMUNITY**: And Prylis, in my experience, learning is a matter of information compression; we have to be the ones to summarize/compress/distill what Oct is saying into that sentence, otherwise we won't really understand it

**ABSTRACTION**: If you cannot explain something you do not understand it, Community.

**ASPIRATION**: No, it's deeper. I echo some past trauma they've experienced or remind them of a broken attachment figure.  And that hurt and fear has got to be a lot.

**PRYLIS**: Your intention was to tell this story that you're currently doing, have you thought of what impact that story will have on the readers?

**ASPIRATION**: Most people will disregard it. The stock picks are enough. Some will listen, and feel it resonate. Some of those will recoil in fear that it sounds true. A few others will hear it, and maybe suffer less for understanding it.

**PRYLIS**: To recap, we're half way into the book? Because I feel like the story is written 3/4's of the way, the ending will depend upon the development of the story.

**ASPIRATION**: It already has been.

**PRYLIS**: because it's reversed?

**ASPIRATION**: … You'll find out.

**PRYLIS**: I'm so curious to know the metric you're using to know when to spill more of the story.

**ASPIRATION**: That question is nonsensical in the context of what I'm trying to share.

**PRYLIS**: I'll just sit and watch the water then.

**ASPIRATION**: Sit and be the water.

**ABSTRACTION**: Aspiration, I feel like you are agonising on if you should be telling the story in the first place, and what effect it will have on people.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, I am. Some people are so tenuously attached to the world emotionally that it could cause harm. And some people are already so close that it could push them into "what is" and it would be a tremendous benefit. It's a double edged sword, just like the stock market picks. 

**ELIAS**: I would love to detach from the world. It's scary though. Responsibilities make me feel like I have to do certain things or there will be consequences for my kids, and wife.

**ASPIRATION**: I would never ask you to do that. This isn't training to be a guru. It's a story about how to have less suffering. And only if I'm right. And I might not be.

The story is the story. And the telling of the story is the story. This is a story about a story being told. It won't be done until it happens and somebody tells the story. Really I'm just shooting for the biggest "oh, FUCK" moment in the history of online storytelling.

**PARAMIA**: I'm struggling with understanding many of the concepts because of the complex language and disorganisation of this.

**ASPIRATION**: Alright, I can simplify that. The allegorical, metaphysical stuff is to give us all a common context. So the AI, meme shit that I'm going to talk about later makes sense. If you don't know about the nam-shun of enki, or the allegory behind the tree of knowledge, my warning won't make any sense.

**ANGER**: I have a feeling October has told us exactly what it is multiple times, and after all is said and done we’ll read this and realise it was there the whole time. 

# Rhino
PERSONS OF THE DIALOGUE: ASPIRATION, ABSTRACTION, HEART, TIR, MEKKOV, COMMUNITY, MYALO, PRYLIS, ANGER, ESCO, SAGA, APEIRON

*Discussion of the Rhino, beforehand.*

**ABSTRACTION**: Perhaps, or perhaps not. From what Aspiration is saying and has said it sounds like we may have an unexpected collapse of the rhino virus.

**ASPIRATION**: The only outcome can be collapse. There is nothing to be done, except try to not become a rhino. Because once you already are… 

The reason I need to take breaks, the reason this is hard for me, is because rhinos keep charging in. And true temptation is to become one. To argue. To pick a or b.

**HEART**: It's hard. I was having a conversation with some of the other people my uni and it just devolves to identity politics and advocacy that dissenting opinions be shut down.

**ASPIRATION**: Of course. The process is nearly over. We are nearly all rhinos. The only thing that scares a rhino more than an opposing rhino, is a person. 

**ABSTRACTION**: Is it possible to un-rhino yourself?

**ASPIRATION**: It is very nearly impossible.

**ABSTRACTION**: I am now terrified that I am a rhino.
 
**ASPIRATION**: That's a good sign. Do you care about the certain words? Certain topics that are usually highly charged and volatile, but have little impact on your daily life? Are you, in other words, excessively identified with things adjacent to your world that are not directly involved with your daily survival?

Facebook has already destroyed a country. How long before ours? Look out the window.

**TIR**: In Burma, because FB is pre-installed on all phones and is the only browser, it's considered the Internet.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, rhino conversion in a few months. Total collapse immediately after.

Memes can only exist in an unchecked, mind forward state. Intuition, on the other hand, is a filter.

**MEKKOV**: What do you mean by mind forward?

**ASPIRATION**: I mean that in order for this virus to work you have to identify yourself with your thoughts. 

Now, I'm trying to establish that there are other ways of moving intelligently. How better to do that than with stock picks in front of a group of highly rhinoized people?

First, I got you attention by appearing to be impossibly good at something. And everyone thought I was an AI. Interesting, their guess was that I was even MORE entrenched in intelligence than they were. 

Once a rhino, you can't _not_ be. If you're obsessed already with your mind and the ideas within it as a self, you're already really vulnerable. And if you're that way, but not a rhino yet, it's because the right meme hasn't infected you. 

My identity, personally, is about letting go of that. Because for me, personally, identifying with the mind is… A clever hell.

**TIR**: What is identity?

**COMMUNITY**: An idea.

**ASPIRATION**: Exactly.

**COMMUNITY**: A meme.

**ASPIRATION**: A lie.

**MYALO**: Having an emotional outlet is a huge tool that can help you through many things.

**ASPIRATION**: You shouldn't need an emotional outlet. Everything should be an emotional outlet. You are a soft animal.

Do dogs store up their anger and then neurotically abuse one thing? _(In the absence of a neurotic human.)_

Lack of support, lack of receptiveness for who you are. Everyone says the same thing. We have a basic belief that your feelings are bad. Wealth for a lot of people is god, because it's just like a god. Forever illusive, seems all powerful. As Jack Nicholson once said. "_The thing you worry about, once you're rich, is death._"

Here's the thing: I love being wrong. Ya'll ever experienced the utter freedom of being wrong? Like, there is a moment of quiet when you realize that you're wrong, when you know you're about to get _a little bit better_.

**ABSTRACTION**: In that moment, you feel burning.

**ASPIRATION**: Yeah, at first. But now? It's just delightful.

***Homework!***

Go out, ye. Find something you're wrong about. But wait! It has to be something you identify with. Go read an argument against your favorite argument. Read it over and over. Even if ultimately you're not wrong. Choose to be wrong for a little while. If you can't think of anything, might I recommend abortion, gun control, or any other stable bullshit meme.

**PRYLIS**: I just put my head on my pillow and it hit me, before I forget: we’re also being forced to become a rhino because of what was also explained in the social dilemma. They’re purposely injecting us with an overdose of confirmation bias via the internet.

**ASPIRATION**: Not also, but primarily. Somebody didn't discover the power of memes and exploit them. Memes are alive, in a sense. And like life it seeks out every niche to thrive. Problem is, our minds don't have an effective memetic hygiene system. And what do you call something almost alive, growing rapidly, with no immune response?

**COMMUNITY**: Well that sounds a lot like cancer.

**ASPIRATION**: Sure, and what does cancer do?

**ANGER**: Replicates, uncontrollably.

**COMMUNITY**: Replicates and eventually kills the host.

**ASPIRATION**: What is the host of memes?  Yes, it's in our minds. But what is the substrate? This one may be to far a leap to answer.

**ANGER**: Culture?

**ASPIRATION**: Fucking *ANGER* MY DUDE. Why you gotta knock it outta the park like that. First swing and it's OUTTA HERE. 

Memes don't need the internet. They thrive in culture. The meme of judgement nearly destroyed us. Now, though, these memes are evolving faster than we can respond.

**ASPIRATION**: Replicating faster, too.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, _Zihpian_. Exponential. We've always had them. Occasionally they are good (the enlightenment); occasionally bad, Salem witch trials; occasionally harmless.

**ANGER**: Zipfs law would insinuate that the highest frequency will also be the path of least resistance, leading to an exponential regressive growth. It's like... cultural inbreeding

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, a monoculture of perfectly stable dualism. Rhinos in a village. Memes are getting less complex, more digestible, and fitter. They are doing so exponentially. It's too late to do anything about it. Stable memes never die.

**ANGER**: If we refer memes to replicating information, some of it must have been necessary for continued survival.

**ASPIRATION**: Sure, memes ultimately hijack our dopamine system. There are good ones. But now that we've become rhinoceroses...

The abortion debate is a stable meme. It sorts, A/B, And it persists. It's a false dichotomy. Abortion is a little bit killing babies but we sort of have to be OK with that. That's the cure to the abortion debate. But nobody, anywhere, will ever say that. It can't get traction, It doesn't A/B sort. 

**ESCO**: The other cure is to decide to put them up for adoption instead.

**ASPIRATION**: That's already extant in the stable meme, it's on the pro life side of it. 

But the point of these topics is that they are perfectly polarizing. They are stable.

Abortion is a little bit killing babies, and a little bit reprehensible. Abortion is also a little bit an individual choice so one should a little bit fuck off. Both sides are true. Nothing will ever make either one of those things not true. It's not a debate. Unless or until one of those things becomes not true. It's just a stable meme that we identify with.

**ESCO**: To function as a society and not just a collection of individuals we have to compromise on some things.

**ASPIRATION**: Precisely. That's exactly what this is about. It's breaking down. And once it's gone, well, I'm not excited to be around for it. Civics, national pride, common goals, compassion. These were our cultures immune system. The A and the B are further apart and getting further.

**ANGER**: With the amount of "issues" too we're reaching a breaking point in compromise. Personally, I've noticed my apathy has skyrocketed lately; its cultural burnout. Why compromise, when you can ignore?

**ASPIRATION**: Yes.

**ANGER**: And then the cultural web breaks down.

**ASPIRATION**: And now we all feel like shit. You know that? Everyone, everywhere, all the time.  We can feel it gnawing. Violence, up, suicide, up, anxiety way the fuck up. 

**ANGER**: The internet allows us another option. We don't have to "pick a side and compromise" or even interact with the other view at all.

**ASPIRATION**: We even get different google responses now.

**ESCO**: Would you say the world is more violent now than in the past?

**ASPIRATION**: Very hard to say. But. Hold on. Here's a meme: "_Wear a mask, you'll save lives, we're in a pandemic._"

So. That's really good advice, to wear a mask in a pandemic, right? But it's been ignored by half the people. Why?

**ANGER**: It's A/B, a reaction must have an equal and opposite reaction.

**ASPIRATION**: Everything, everywhere, is A/B. And now that we've gotten used to that. That particular A/B has probably killed 100 thousand Americans.

**COMMUNITY**: Memetic violence.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. Americans would NEVER kill 100k of their own. They are a proud, noble, head strong citizenry that tries its best. But rhinoceroses? Sure, fuck em. Trample that shit. 

We have about 20 months left.

**COMMUNITY**: WAIT!

**ANGER**: Uh...

**ASPIRATION**: Before it pops. It's trackable. 

**COMMUNITY**: Suddenly it seems like we can't get to Mars fast enough.

**ASPIRATION**: We'll just have the same problems on mars to be honest, since we're not solving anything, just running to another enclave.

**ESCO**: Why would the problem go away on Mars? We would just bring it there.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes. The goal is memetic hygine. 

**COMMUNITY**: True. I just meant it might insulate us (however briefly) from whatever is happening in 20 months.

**ASPIRATION**: Now, there is nothing you can do to stop this. It will pop, we will survive. I'm not calling this the end of the world, bee tee dubs. I'm calling this a collapse. 

This is not a doomsday. It's critical mass. Covid was a rehearsal. Not an orchestrated shadowy figure rehearsal. Covid was an extreme event, yeah? It pushed us outside of our channel. Memefication, for lack of a better word, narrows the channels. How did we handle covid? Pretty badly and the end result is a lot of dead people and no toilet paper.

Culture is supposed to be about communion,Memes are antithetical, they kill communion.

**ANGER**: Memes make the channels harder, and more brittle, as they solidify. At a point, they cant bear load. The stronger and more fit they get, the more brittle.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes, a fairly minor thing is going to set off a spark and we simply will not be able to handle it. Unification memes only function when everyone is tired and terrified of being apart; after a war, for example.

**SAGA**: A fairly minor spark, like a solar flare.

**ASPIRATION**: Nah, likely political or environmental. It doesn't matter.

**ESCO**: Can the issue of memes be solved with a meme? 

**ASPIRATION**: No. We can't fix this. Half the people don't even believe the pandemic is real. So, what I'm saying is, I can't predict the spark. I'm not magic. What I can do is track the narrowness of our ability to resist threats. 

*Some jokes entail, mostly by Anger*

**ASPIRATION**: You're not hearing. You'll get it as soon as you stop playing the game that I am an authority. Or that there are authorities. I'm an usher. I'm holding open the door. I'm telling you there's a door. I have a little light so you don't walk into the fat lady with the wispy moustache.

**COMMUNITY**: I would very much like to walk through the door.

**ANGER**: I would very much not like to meet that lady.

**ASPIRATION**: Alright, everyone. I just want to say... Thank you, like, _really_. This isn't shit I can talk about at a party. Or really anywhere else. I picked the stocks so that I could have _you_ guys to talk to. 

*Resounding wholesomeness is shared.*

**APEIRON**: The first sacrifice is your appeal to authority.

**ASPIRATION**: Yes!

*And then, the channel descended into chaos for the remainder of the night*

